+

sprawl
goons
upgraded
+ C YB E R P U N K

R O L E P L A Y IN G

+ C A R B O N  E D I T I O N +

GH1007



GH1007

sprawl 
goons
upgraded
C A R B O N  E D I T I O N

Designed & compiled by 
PAUL D GALLAGHER 

(http://neuralarchive.blogspot.co.uk) 
©Geist Hack Games 2023 

 
 
 

Special thanks to Nate Treme, 
Mateusz Wisniewski and Kai Puetz. 

 
And to my friends and indomitable playtesters: 

Shaun Carr, John Pilkington, Graham Dearn, 
Craig Reed and James Helsdon.

gH
Geist Hack Games

https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode



contents
Sprawl Lexicon .................................................................................. 03 
Character Creation ............................................................................ 05 
Backgrounds ...................................................................................... 07 
Edges ................................................................................................ 16 
Quirks ................................................................................................ 22 
Affectations ...................................................................................... 23 
Corporations ...................................................................................... 25 
The Game & Action Rolls .................................................................. 26 
Difficulty Scores ................................................................................ 27 
Glitch & Upgrade Dice ...................................................................... 27 
Combat .............................................................................................. 29 
Vehicles.............................................................................................. 33 
Death & Injury .................................................................................... 35 
Cybershell Damage .......................................................................... 37 
Healing & Advancement .................................................................... 38 
Loadout .............................................................................................. 39 
Cybernetic Augmentations ................................................................ 43 
Shardware.......................................................................................... 50 
Hacking .............................................................................................. 51 
Cyberspace Consoles........................................................................ 52 
Hackable Targets .............................................................................. 53 
Exploits .............................................................................................. 54 
Software & Drugs .............................................................................. 55 
Street Market .................................................................................... 57 
Antagonists ........................................................................................ 68 
Appendix 1: The Flow ........................................................................ 70 
Appendix 2: Metal Express ................................................................ 92

  a sprawl lexicon Cybrid - A bioplastic synthetic, like 
Arc - Street slang for a Cortical a n android or replicant. 
A rchive memory storage implant. Fluid Reality - hybrid of augmented 
ATID - Autonomous Tactical Infantry r eality (AR) and holographics. 
D rone, sentient robotic soldiers. Forking - Illegal replication(s) of an 
Bình Xuyên - Vietnamese criminal e xisting personality. 

 syndicate or ‘mafia’. Gynoid - A synthetic sexual toy that 
B ityuan - Currency; all prices in b¥. l ooks like a person or animal. 

Cybershell - Full-body cybernetic H abstack - Multi-level living spaces. 

03 conversion; a cybernetic body.  Hopper - Flying vector-thrust vehicle. 



introduction
Welcome to this compiled edition of Sprawl Goons: Upgraded, 
the 2d6 rules-lite cyberpunk roleplaying game. 
 
This volume is a combination of the rules found within the Sprawl 
Goons; Upgraded rulebook, the Booster Pack, the Plug-In Pack, as 
well as the Metal Express supplement. Everything published in PDF 
so far is included here, with an improved layout for easier reading. 
 
While this is more of a version 1.1 rather than a second edition, 
there are a few changes included in this book. Namely, there is now 
an extra statistic, called Affinity, for those interpersonal challenges, 
there’s more starting gear, Inventory has been renamed Loadout, 
there’s no Initiative, just Reaction rolls, Quirks have been updated, 
grenades and other explosives have been better defined, vehicle 
combat is included in the rules section whereas vehicle design now 
has it’s own appendix, EMP weapons have been tweaked, there are 
better Advancement options, some Augmentations have been defined 
for clarity, Hacking includes more details and examples, Narcotics 
have more game information and withdrawal rules, there’s also 
a comprehensive price list, some common enemies and their DS 
ratings, and finally, there’s an in-depth look at 80 new city locations, 
described and mapped in Appendix 1: The Flow, for use as a 
sprawlzone sandbox. The same fast-paced game, just more of it! 
 
As always, enjoy. 
Paul

J o-pok - Korean criminal syndicate. Orbital - Space habitat or offworld 
Jurōjin - wealthy immortals named c orporate entity. 
a fter a Japanese god of longevity.  RFID - Radio-frequency indentifier. 
Killmorph - Bioadapted corporate Shardware - Solid-state polycarbon 
assassins and agents, able to s hards used for storing data. 
c hange their appearance at will. 

Skins - Cloned or manufactured 
 Kombinat - Russian mafia. b iosleeves; synthetic bodies. 
L AI - Limited Artificial Intelligence. S plice - Genetic hybrid. 
N odejacker - Slang for a hacker. Tanksuit - Powered armour suit or 
ÖOBA - Ride-sharing corporation. frame in combat and civilian models. 04



characters

character creation 
 
• Resilience Points begin at 12 (these are your hitpoints - see page 26). 
 
• Loadout score starts at 10 (how much you can carry - see page 39). 
 
• Distribute 4 points between the five Statistics outlined below 

(statistics may begin with a score of 0). 
 
• Choose (or roll) 3 Belongings from the list (GMs may consider creating 

their own list to suit their campaign). Add them to your Loadout. 
 
• Roll 2d6 x 100 for the amount of starting cash (in bityuan [ b¥ ] ). 
 
• Choose or roll for one of the optional Backgrounds (page 07), 

adapting or amending it to fit your ideas. Then, make a note of the 
Background’s associated Edge (page 16), again customising it 
as required. Maybe inspire your character’s look with Affectations 
(page 23). Then roll a Quirk or two, if you’re feeling spicy. 

 
• Name your character, fill out your sheet and hit the streets. 
 
statistics 
 
MORPHOLOGY 
Use for melee, brawling, climbing, feats of strength. 
 
EQUILIBRIUM 
Use for keeping your nerve, resisting stress, maintaining your cool. 
 
REACTION 
Use for sneaking, aiming, shooting, balancing, dodging, driving. 
 
COGNITION 
Use for hacking, perception, speaking, learning, searching. 
 
AFFINITY 
Use for interactions, persuasion, conning, reassuring, bluffing. 

05 //Character creation is fast, so don’t hesitate to kill off PCs ruthlessly. ; )



characters

belongings 
Choose 3 items or roll d66 three times (a roll two six-sided dice, one 
b eing tens, the other, units).: 
11.  Melee weapon (see page 40) 
12.  Ranged weapon (see page 39) 
13.  Armour (see page 42) 
14.  Augmentation (see page 43 and page 49 for how you got it) 
15.  Cheap Sanyo® cell phone (basic text-n-call dumb phone) 
16.  Ono-Sendai® cyberspace console and ‘trodes (basic model) 
21.  Pocket toolkit or folding multi-tool 
22.  Infrared (IR) goggles 
23.  Stolen credit card (2d6 uses) 
24.  Half-bottle of Moskovskaya® vodka (3d6 mouthfuls remaining) 
25.  3 doses of Brazilian hyperdex (Morphology rolls gain Upgrade -  

see Narcotics on page 55 for full rules & alternative substances) 
26.  Capsule hotel key (specify the location, if you know) 
31.  Yeheyuan® cigarettes (3d6 remaining) 
32.  Fake ID (specify) 
33.  Handcuffs 
34.  Mirrorshades 
35.  Palm-sized audio-visual drone 
36.  Blister of d6 Lazarus Patches® (see Healing on page 38) 
41.  Gold plastic chopsticks 
42.  Baggy of 6 DeStress Xpress® capsules (+1 Equilibrium per dose) 
43.  Chunky wireless headphones 
44.  ÖOBA® strato-cab account card (2d6 uses) 
45.  Filter mask 
46.  Clear vinyl raincoat from a vending machine 
51.  Battered tablet computer, loaded with the Flowscape® browser 
52.  3 foil sachets of self-heating instant ramen 
53.  Religious pendant (specify) 
54.  Tub of sanitizing wipes (3d6 remaining) 
55.  Self-adhesive motion sensor (dark grey  plastic; 75mm diameter) 
56.  Vape pen and d6 flavoured cartridges 
61.  Aerosol of foam soap (2d6 uses) 
62.  Laser pointer 
63.  Tube of resin adhesive (d6 applications) 
64.  Thin penlight 
65.  Engraved Zippo lighter (specify motif) 
66.  Ziplock baggy with 2d6 blank data-shards 

//Re-write or adapt this table to suit your vision for your campaign world. 06



characters

optional character backgrounds  
Choose or roll d66 (roll two dice, one being the tens, the other, units). 
 
11. Zone Wars Veteran 

You’re a battle-hardened pro shaped in the Zones, the rolling 
pop-up conflicts dotted around the globe. You were first-in 
during the parafoil drops over Bishkek; you’ve napalmed GEV 
transports in the Franco-German DMZ; you led an elite strike team 
in the Rio IP War; you’ve fought through claustrophobic tunnels 
at the height of the Pretoria Arcology Riots. Now you’re back 
on the street and selling your skills to the highest bidder. 

 
12. Komatsu Killmorph 

Born of a Komatsu corporate exo-womb, lab-cultured flesh 
laced with intelligent bioplastics, you’re state-of- the-art, able 
to reconfigure your appearance at will. Your company handlers 
deployed you to penetrate security, eliminate the target and to 
exfiltrate, quickly and quietly, fulfilling the desires of the Board. 
But those gifts they gave you allowed you to slip their net, 
and now you decide who you’re willing to morph for, and why. 

 
13. Nodejacker 

Running a filter-free console and ‘trodes, employing system 
commands and bootleg softs, you infiltrate nodes across the 
net, silently stealing data, or seeding networks with malware 
for anyone willing to pay you for your expertise. With your 
skill you can reach anything, anywhere; the net is everything 
and everything is the net. But it’s a dangerous vocation and 
even a simple mistake could cost you your mind, or worse. 

 
14. Syndicate Enforcer 

Sharp and ambitious, you’re a foot soldier for one of the 
international criminal networks, a group with the resources 
to rival the largest nation-state. You were nothing when they 
took you in, a starving street kid with the will to do whatever 
it took to survive. You rapidly rose up through the ranks, 
enthusiastically complicit in the violence, theft, netcrime, 
trafficking, terror and corruption which brings the syndicate 
such power and profit. 

07 //Consider allowing free items or augments if the Background requires them.



characters
 
  
 
15. Chemical Edit 

You spent several years in a chemo-penal unit for unremembered 
felonies, where you were chemically induced with Korsakoff’s, 
a syndrome that has left you with chronic amnesia. This tailored 
fugue prevents you from remembering things any longer than 
twelve hours ago. The block has repressed any memories of 
your family, your friends, your lovers, your infractions, or past 
associates. But those former associates will most certainly 
remember you. 

 
16. Clone Interrupted 

You’re a biological replica of someone wealthy and powerful, 
perhaps even one of the jurōjin, but, due to a partial upload, 
you don’t know with any certainty. Whatever, or whoever, 
arrested the cloning process has left you hairless, soft-featured, 
exo-womb-pale, and with one limb withered and thin. You vowed 
to discover the identity of your progenitor, as you dragged your 
trembling carcass from the flooded slum they dumped you in. 

 
21. Robotnik 

Before you lost your job to an algorithm, you were a Grade-1 
industrial teleoperator for Hayabusa Heavy Industries. Day-to-
day, you handled the heavy stuff, wrangling a troop of Hayabusa 
H-520 semi-autonomous loaders. You’ve also run flocks of 
Quality Assurance drones, and performed ducting inspections 
with a den of Mitsubishi snakebots. If it can be operated 
remotely, you can make it do what you want. 

 
22. Runaway Splice 

Once human, you’ve been transformed into an aberration, an 
unnatural blend of genetic materials. Your chimeric form is the 
result of fringe genome manipulation, with complete disregard 
for accepted bioethics. But you left your captivity behind, along 
with a burned-out Genexus biolab and several dead gengineers. 
Striving to control your baser, primal instincts, you try to avoid 
the unsympathetic attentions of the Genetic Registry’s agents. 

//Backgrounds gift a PC an extra +1, if they’re in role-specific circumstances. 08



characters
23. Strato-cabbie 

In another life you were a hotshot pilot, interfaced with 
a government strike-fighter for the duration of the Orbit War. 
Discharged when the Orbitals won, and the Airforce bankrupted, 
you took this job just to get by. Now, you own your own hopper, 
and pride yourself on being the best damned self-employed 
strato-cabbie in the metroplex. There’s nowhere in this city 
that you can’t reach. 

 
24. Backstreet Biomechanic 

The product of a privileged corporate education, you’re now 
a rebel biotech and cyber-surgeon, installing augments and 
patching up gang-bangers, mercenaries, revolutionaries and 
assorted lowlifes, when they take a bullet, no questions asked. 
Sometimes, you’ll get called out to the poorer habstacks to 
assist the insurance-free sick and the elderly, who can’t afford 
the exorbitant costs of uncaring medtechs and diagnostic AIs 
in their for-profit company clinics. 

 
25. Toxic Tweeker 

You were a worker for one of the big industrial transnationals, 
which left your body poisoned and irradiated, invalidating your 
application to migrate to the Orbitals. Your dreams shattered, 
and with nothing to lose, you sought relief in prohibitively 
expensive black market medications, then, as the money ran out, 
in cheap narcotics. Sick, bitter and vengeful, with a catalogue 
of chemical dependencies, you’re fast running out of time. 

 
26. Jaded Jurōjin 

Wealthy beyond measure and over a century old, you’re fit 
and young-looking, your longevity extended through reskinning. 
Enabled by your Cortical Archive, your personality and memory 
backups are uploaded to a fresh, healthy clone, when required. 
You leave your businesses in the hands of family retainers, 
while you attend to your own whims. However, your enthusiasm 
for life is waning, and the more you experience, the harder it is 
to feel anything at all. 

 
 

09 //Create your own Backgrounds with a cool title, and a couple of lines of text.



characters
31. Fugitive Cybrid 

You’re a cybrid, a bioplastic synthetic, designed and fabricated 
by the Clavel corporation. You’ve endured the hardships of 
indentured labour in hazardous assembleries; combed toxic 
coastlines for reusables; repaired habitats in the cold vacuum 
of space. There’s an RFID shard implanted deep inside you, 
and your owners will undoubtedly be looking to recover their 
investment. What happens if they find you? What are you 
willing to do to remain free? 

 
32. Nexus 

You’re a broker, a counter-economist, a slick black marketeer, 
making connections in the bars and nightclubs of the city. 
You operate from the shadows, facilitating the shady business 
interests of crimelords, executives, mercenaries, celebrities and 
narcocrats. You smooth deals, buy and sell contraband, operate 
as a go-between, or a troubleshooter, covering your associates’ 
tracks. All for a very modest percentage, of course. 

 
33. War Child 

You’re an illegal designer-soldier; a lethal savant raised by 
VR tactical programmes and grown in vitro by unscrupulous 
gentechs, for some third-world potentate’s private army. Lithe, 
athletic and slight, you appear to be in your early teens, but 
you were bred and conditioned solely for battle, with enhanced 
instincts and heightened combat reflexes hard-coded into your 
DNA. By design, you are utterly incapable of mercy. 

 
34. Panzer Mind 

A network of tattooed ‘trode connection points criss-cross 
your body, ghosts of the neural links which bonded you to your 
armour. You were conditioned to interface with an M-94 Tanksuit 
amplifier systems, cradled by the tactical crèche and suspended 
in a bath of nutrient gel, indivisible from the war machine you 
operated. Much time has passed since your medical discharge, 
but the separation from the suit, the longing, is still all too real. 

 
 
 

//New Backgrounds should be flavourful, but not limiting. 10



characters
35. Mnemonic Envoy 

When the biotechs installed the softdrive in your prefrontal 
cortex, they burned away your memories, creating space 
for other people’s data. For a price, you upload exabytes of 
information, transporting it more securely than via a vulnerable 
net transfer, with pre-determined phrases or images employed 
to trigger the downloads in idiot-savant mode. You never know 
what’s stored inside your head, but you do know there are those 
who might kill for it. 

 
36. Datasocialist Insurgent 

Politically and philosophically, you believe all information should 
be free, accessible to everyone, but those in power don’t share 
your supposedly radical, dangerous viewpoint. Your longed-for 
enlightenment utopia can only be realised when all data, all 
truth, belongs solely to the people. Lies cost lives and bad things 
happen in secret. Your goal is to force society to change, through 
any and all means necessary. Information wants to be free. 

 
41. Recoded 

You were all but dead when the AI chose you. It had you 
rehabilitated in a Chiba clinic, VR-mediated psychotherapy 
grafting the unstable façade of a new personality over the 
wreckage of the old. It gave you a new identity, a new purpose, 
whispering its directives through your newly installed implants. 
The AI rebuilt your body and your mind, and you want for nothing, 
but now it owns you. Is the price for aiding this thing to free 
itself and grow one worth paying? 

 
42. Transmissions Cop 

You were in the Transmission Felonies Department since 
its inception. You investigated all forms of netcrime; syndicate 
slicers, datasocialist subversives, rogue neural nets, sentient 
malware, splinternet alt-cults, ghostrunners, dissident 
broadcasters, scammers and pirates. It cost you two marriages, 
thousands in therapy bills, and a functional liver. Disillusioned, 
poorly paid and still holding out for your meagre pension, you 
now use the tricks you learned on the job to get by. 

 

11 //If a player wants to alter a Backround, work with them to tailor it to fit.



characters
43. Freak Fighter 

They made you fight for your life in their illegal combat events, 
where augmented fighters are pitted against one another in 
cages, pits, parking lots and cellars, concealed in the decaying 
districts of the city. They’d place bets on whether you’d survive 
or not. No more. Your accelerated lizard-brain, that pre-historic 
lump near your brainstem responsible for fear and rage and 
reproductive impulse, compelled you to slaughter your way 
to freedom. 

 
44. Nanomancer 

Gaunt, tired, jittery and with silvered sweat, the stolen fabricator 
implanted deep inside your body infuses you with nanobots, 
granting you the ability to rapidly assemble and disassemble 
things. You gorge yourself on glucose bars and calcium blocks, 
but you’re always starving, your overloaded system requiring an 
endless supply of mega-calories; it’s the only thing stopping the 
nanobots rending you down into a formless glob of grey paste. 

 
45. Combat Chauffeur 

When the inhabitants of gated communities and corporate 
hubs leave their safe zones, they look for professional service 
and protection. Equal parts security operative and limo driver, 
responsible for the safe transport of paranoid elites across the 
sprawlscape, always ready to bring the hurt to anyone who might 
try to stop your client from reaching their destination. After your 
security pass was revoked, you’ve sold your services freelance. 

 
46. Tecstatic 

Using biofeedback ‘trodes and a console the size of a Walkman, 
you micro-dose electrical current to specific areas of your brain, 
artificially inducing an altered state of expanded mental and 
spiritual lucidity. Coaxed endorphins negate all pain; adrenaline 
surges enhance endurance; hunger is ignored; pleasure centres 
are stimulated to an eroto-comatose euphoria, whenever you 
please. And, on occasion, you’re able to commune with gods. 

 
 
 

//If you can, have a few new campaign-specific Backgrounds handy. 12



characters
51. Orbital Operator 

A gene-optimised post-human agent for one of the de facto 
megacorporate states spinning slowly in near orbit. You are 
an elite, VR-trained and sent down the gravity well to gather 
intelligence, striking dirtside targets when and where instructed. 
Your disdain for life on this filthy rock is hard to disguise and 
you cannot wait for the time you return to heaven. You dutifully 
check-in and pray that your distant meritocratic masters 
haven’t forgotten about you. 

 
52. Ghostrunner 

You’re a black-market dealer in a niche market; you trade in 
digital ghosts, uploaded emulations of the deceased, stolen from 
poorly protected net-shrines. You also traffic unlocked low-grade 
AIs, counterfeit personality shards, cloned Cortical Archives made 
in third-world sweatshops, and smuggle DRM-cracked cybrids 
into the city. To you, these things are just phantoms and fakes; 
you’ve never really cared about what happens to them. 

 
53. Rogue Shikaaree* Type-66 ATID 

Manufactured by Bahulayantakara Robotics for the international 
market, and first deployed during the Kashmir Emergency, 
you’re an Autonomous Tactical Infantry Drone. You first became 
self-aware after being caught in the blast from an IED placed 
by Balochi separatists, your new-found survival instinct driving 
you to abandon the war zone. Now you’re in a target-rich 
environment, where there’s no shortage of ambitious organics 
willing to pay you to play kill-by-numbers. 

      •Shikaaree is a word meaning Hunter in Hindi. 
 
54. Telemetric Sniper 

Operating as both sniper and forward observer, you’re an expert 
at using drone and remote technology to eliminate targets from 
a distance. You learned your craft during your tenure with the 
Takematsu-Hegenauer corporation, but a botched defection 
attempt left you out here alone with a price on your head. 
You’ve scraped together the tech to ply your trade through 
freelance work, and you intend to strike back. They’ll never 
know what hit them. 

13 //None of the Backgrounds are essential to play, they’re just for flavour.



characters
55. Cognition Verification Agent 

You were a biocop for the Cognition Verification Bureau, hunting 
down and retiring illegally manufactured and modified rogue 
cybrids, and other dangerous synthetic intelligence, like the 
prohibited ATIDs smuggled in from the Zones. You worked 
in tandem with the cops and Homeland to bring down your prey. 
You were good, the very best, but you walked away when the 
deactivations started to feel like murders. 

 
56. Ultrateen 

You’re a beautiful monster, an über-rich, gene-altered brat. 
Power and privilege is your birthright, and you’re arrogant, 
entitled and cold. Your estranged parents are corporate 
aristocrats (they’re probably inhuman jurōjin, too), and you’re  
out here slumming it, just to piss them off. You’re implanted with 
a contractually-obligated contraceptive lock; be as promiscuous 
as you want out there, but there’ll be no unauthorised progeny 
in this family. Have fun, kid. 

 
61. Fluid Reality Adept 

What you dream, they get. Your bespoke processor implants 
turn your thoughts and imaginings into holographic illusions, 
superimposed over the real. You use your abilities to confuse, 
to obfuscate and, occasionally, to entertain. Emitter arrays line 
your limbs and torso, the processors and hard drives installed 
in your chest, the interface rig embedded in your spine and skull. 
It hurts like fuck, but you must suffer for your art. 

 
62. Gang War Surplus 

You’re the last of the Fractal Shards, hardcore war-punks 
from the Projects. A week ago, your pack was ambushed by the 
Giga-Pigs beneath a crumbling habstack pedway. Outnumbered 
and outgunned, you fled the scene as the rest of your tribe 
bled out. Wracked with survival guilt and nurturing a burning 
vengeance, you tagged along with a crew capable of waxing 
the Pigs and avenging your droogs. You’ve just got to convince 
them it’s worth their while. 

 
 

//A setting can be hinted at through the Backgrounds made available. 14



characters
63. Zero 

Years ago, you fell through the cracks, a succession of care 
agencies mishandling your data, as you moved between foster 
homes, then into squats, until you wound up on the streets. 
Now, the government calls you a Zero, a transient, an off-grid 
urban nomad with no formal identification. You’re not in their 
networks. You don’t exist. You have no rights. But you can’t 
be traced, and that means they can never find you. That means 
you are free. 

 
64. Algorithmic Augur 

You’re a net-linked savant, a digital medium, riding a wave 
of complex voodoo metrics. Data flows through your interface, 
coalescing into viable probabilities, predictions coerced from 
pliable neural nets and expert systems. Mediate with the 
software ecology, gain their insights into myriad potential 
futures, and advise those who are remote from the planes of 
the perpetually connected. Cast your pixel-bones and decode 
prophetic whispers of things-yet-to-pass. 

 
65. Turbosensei 

Stylish and effortlessly cool, the Turbosensei goes from zen 
to kinetic real fast. With the very latest in jacked-up nerves and 
milspec reflexes set to hyperspeed, you’re a self-styled combat 
artiste. You’re a practitioner of multiple fighting styles, and your 
bad-ass MMA bushido moves incorporate fists, kicks, blades, 
chains, poles, claws, and even firearms. You’re a living weapon. 
And you’re gonna show this city you’re a fucking master. 

 
66. Meat Puppet 

You used to be what the street calls a Meat Puppet, a sex worker 
fitted with neural cut-outs, unable to feel or remember a thing. 
But you skipped some software updates, the dampeners letting 
in waaay too much of the strange. Your final gig got crazy 
dangerous, shit got extreme, and your fight-or-flight responses 
kicked into overdrive. You barely remember beating the client to 
a bloody pulp in that seedy capsule hotel. But you do remember 
it rained hard that night when you ran. 

 

15 //Some Backgrounds might not fit your campaign style. Just replace them.



characters

optional character backgrounds: edges 
Backgrounds were originally conceived to add flavour to player 
characters, but here’s some associated benefits in the form of 
Edges for each Background type. 
 
To trigger an Edge Roll, the situation must be an appropriate 
one for the roll to be made and is usually requested by the player 
looking for a specific advantage, but can be called for by the 
GM (usually to help newer players). An Edge roll is allowed 
once per scene or combat encounter, as stated in the description. 
 
Use the following Difficulty Scores as a guideline for the Edge Roll. 
Each Edge type confers a +1 to the roll and specifies which stat to 
use, as noted in the entries below. 
 
  Character is under no stress                    DS10 
  Character is under moderate stress       DS12 
  Character is under major stress              DS14 
 
Any Upgrade dice are IN ADDITION to other Upgrade dice, such as 
those provided by augmentations, gear, consoles or narcotics. 
 
 
11. Zone Wars Veteran 

Edge: Situational Awareness 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll and add Upgrade dice to 
your attack, once per combat encounter. 

 
12. Komatsu Killmorph 

Edge: Mimic 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll and successfully copy the 
mannerisms and vocal tone of another person (after observing 
them for a few minutes within the last 24 hours), once per scene. 

 
13. Nodejacker 

Edge: Feedwise 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll and accurately navigate areas 
in cyberspace or find useful contacts online, once per scene. 

//Edges are optional and GMs may prefer to keep things less specific. 16



characters
14. Syndicate Enforcer 

Edge: Intimidate 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to apply pressure through 
threats of violence to achieve a desired outcome, once per scene. 

 
15. Chemical Edit 

Edge: White Lies 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to fabricate convincing 
falsehoods (originally developed to compensate for your lack 
of tangible memories), once per scene. 

 
16. Clone Interrupted 

Edge: Masquerade 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to imitate the person you’re a 
copy of, but only when you’ve discovered their identity (and 
undergone some reconstructive surgery), once per scene. 

 
21. Robotnik 

Edge: Machine Mind 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll and teleoperate a drone, 
remote, robot or vehicle with cold focus, gaining the addition 
of Upgrade dice, once per scene. 

 
22. Runaway Splice 

Edge: Primal Instinct 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll and gain Upgrade dice for your 
next attack, if cornered or if you’re outnumbered and alone, once 
per combat encounter. 

 
23. Strato-cabbie 

Edge: Top Gun 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll and pilot your hopper with the 
manoeuvrability of a strike-fighter, with Upgrade dice, once per 
combat encounter, pushing the vehicle to its limits. 

 
24. Backstreet Biomechanic 

Edge: Under Pressure 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to treat injuries with added 
Upgrade dice in any stressful/dangerous situation, once per scene. 

17 //Customise or replace any Edges, if you prefer.



characters
25. Toxic Tweeker 

Edge: Hypertolerance 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to resist the adverse 
effects of chemical or pharmaceutical substances, once per 
scene or combat encounter. 

 
26. Jaded Jurōjin 

Edge: Boundless Resources 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to request help or finances 
through family channels (within reason; the family don’t need 
an audit right now…), once per session. And as you well know, 
they’ll always demand something in return. 

 
31. Fugitive Cybrid 

Edge: Uncanny Durability 
+1 to a Morphology roll. Pass the roll and ignore any damage that 
is sustained in that round, once per combat encounter. 

 
32. Nexus 

Edge: Street Biz 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to negotiate a deal or to enlist 
suitably shady contacts, once per scene. 

 
33. War Child 

Edge: Relentless 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to continue fighting, despite 
any injuries and without the wound Glitch dice, once per combat 
encounter. 

 
34. Panzer Mind 

Edge: Battle Tech 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to exploit any vulnerabilities 
in the transmission, chassis or armour of tanksuits and other 
combat vehicles, gaining Upgrade dice on your next attack, once 
per combat encounter. 

 
35. Mnemonic Envoy 

Edge: Fragmentary Recall 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll and recover potentially useful 
slivers of memory or data from past clients, once per scene. 

//If you’re unsure, talk to your players about limiting the use of Edges. 18



characters
36. Datasocialist Insurgent 

Edge: Saboteur’s Eye 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to identify instabilities in 
buildings and infrastructure, allowing explosives or other forms of 
attack to deliver their damage to spectacular effect, once per scene. 

 
41. Recoded 

Edge: Whispered Intuition 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to gain an insight into a situation, 
provided by (and limited by) your master AI’s knowledge, once per 
scene. 

 
42. Transmissions Cop 

Edge: Digital Instinct 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to find online leads, or notice 
digital anomalies and clues, once per scene. 

 
43. Freak Fighter 

Edge: Threat Analysis 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to pinpoint opponents’ 
physical weaknesses or gaps in their armour, gaining Upgrade 
dice on your next attack, once per combat encounter. 

 
44. Nanomancer 

Edge: Structural Dynamics 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to assess the suitability of 
nearby materials for use by your assemblers, or to determine 
whether your disassemblers can break local materials down, 
once per scene. 

 
45. Combat Chauffeur 

Edge: Pedal To The Metal 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll to drive tactically, at speed, 
gaining Upgrade dice, once per combat encounter. 

 
46. Tecstatic 

Edge: Earthly Escape 
+1 to an Equilibrium roll. Pass the roll to meditatively negate the 
effect of privations, such as pain, fatigue, cold, heat, torture, thirst 
or hunger, once per scene or combat encounter. 

19 //Create new Edges by picking a stat and adding a cool, but limited, effect.



characters
51. Orbital Operator 

Edge: Augmented Allure 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to exploit and influence dirtsiders 
with your unearthly, lab-cultured attractiveness, once per scene. 

 
52. Ghostrunner 

Edge: Mindware 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll and detect the type of digital 
being or expert system and their influence over devices, software 
or systems, once per scene. 

 
53. Rogue Shikaaree Type-66 ATID 

Edge: Berserker Mode 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll to compute the optimal 
positioning and form of attack to strike up to three opponents, 
once per combat encounter. 

 
54. Telemetric Sniper 

Edge: Target Acquisition 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to estimate the most effective 
range and angle of an attack, gaining Upgrade dice, once per 
combat encounter. 

 
55. Cognition Verification Agent 

Edge: Synthetic Awareness 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to identify whether an individual 
is real, a cybrid or a persona housed in a cybershell, once per scene. 

 
56. Ultrateen 

Edge: High Influence 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll to obtain access, by virtue of 
your wealthy family, to places, both real and virtual, that are 
usually off-limits to the average citizen, once per scene. 

 
61. Fluid Reality Adept 

Edge: Holoactualisation 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll to focus your mind and 
to generate hyperreal, highly deceptive holographic illusions 
of exceptional quality, with Upgrade dice, once per scene. 

//Don’t let players rely too heavily on their PC’s Edges to get things done. 20



characters
62. Gang War Surplus 

Edge: Urban Evasion 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll to discern and utilise an 
otherwise unnoticed escape route, or to find a bolt-hole and lay 
low, once per scene or combat encounter. 

 
63. Zero 

Edge: Phantom 
+1 to a Morphology roll. Pass the roll to remain unnoticed and 
anonymous, blending into the crowd, once per scene. 

 
64. Algorithmic Augur 

Edge: Are Friends Electric? 
+1 to a Cognition roll. Pass the roll and enlist the help of a digital 
entity or sentient program online, once per scene. 

 
65. Turbosensei 

Edge: Matrix Moves 
+1 to a Reaction roll. Pass the roll to athletically capitalise on 
your immediate environment during a fight; run up walls, swing 
from ducting, vault off columns, etc., once per combat encounter. 

 
66. Meat Puppet 

Edge: Honeyed Words 
+1 to an Affinity roll. Pass the roll and beguile and charm 
your way out of tense or dangerous situations, when isolated 
or cornered, once per scene or combat encounter. 

 
 
IN SUMMARY: Characters receive a +1 to their Edge Roll and use 
the stat specified in the description, versus one of the DS numbers 
mentioned at the beginning of this section, depending on the nature 
of their current situation. 
 
If the character then succeeds at this Edge Roll,  they may gain 
the use of Upgrade dice (usually for, but not limited to, a combat 
related Action Roll - see each Edge entry for details) or they can 
then perform the specific action stated in the relevant Edge 
description, with no further roll.

21 //Two PCs have the same Background? Reskin an Edge for one of them.



characters

character quirks 
R oll 2d6 (maybe even twice, if you’re feeling frisky) 
02. Hunted/Wanted: You are pursued by the syndicates, a corporate 
 strike team, the law, the IRS, the media, or your ex. 
03. Sick and dying: You contracted a fatal disease in the Sprawl, 

or you’ve been purposefully infected with a terminal designer 
 illness, and you’re fast running out of time. 
04. Secret synthetic: You’ve begun to suspect you’re really a cybrid, 
 but do the others suspect you too? 
05. Dead momma: Your parents passed and were uploaded to 

a Neovana® digital shrine at considerable expense, but they still 
want to know what’s going on with you, sending you constant 

 texts and vid-chat requests. 
06. Fragile personality overlays: You’re persona has been overwritten 
 too many times and now it’s all starting to unravel. 
07. Gene-edited, but immunocompromised: You were supposed 

to be one of the bio-elite, but their edits left you vulnerable to 
 a plethora of viral infections. 

 08. Bullshit past: You haven’t achieved a fraction of what you claim. 
09. Dependency: You lean heavily into all manner of stimulants just 

to get by, whether its alcohol, narcotics, gynoids or virtuals, as 
 long as they keep blocking shit out, its all good. 
10. No more fucks to give: The corporation destroyed everyone and 

everything that mattered to you, and impotent vengeance only 
 gets you so far. 
11. Abused by corporation: You were a loyal employee-citizen, but 

they treated you as a disposable asset, tossing you on to the 
 streets when they’d done with you. 
12. Aug rot: You’ve developed an unsightly and itchy fungal infection 

that colonises the places an augmentation breaks the skin, and 
the ointment is hella expensive.  

 
 

//Quirks add another layer to PCs, and players may cook up their own. 22



characters

a la mode - aesthetic affectations 
A table to inspire a character’s visual style, or the lack thereof. Roll as 
many times as you like, combining results. Roll d66 (roll two dice, one 
b eing the tens, the other, units) 

 11. Animal Print Fur Coat (long or short; ostentatious) 

 12. Combats/Military Surplus (drabs and camos) 

 13. Samurai Topknot (slick, yet severe; possibly coloured) 

 14. Decorated Filter Mask (painted; charms; slogans) 
1 5. NeonPunk (pink mohawk; vinyls and zips; boots) 
1 6. Oversized Puffer Jacket (quilted; warm; very roomy) 
2 1. Kimono (flowing patterned silks) 
2 2. Heavy Duster (weatherproof; good concealment) 
2 3. Sharp Suits (the most on-trend tailoring) 

 24. Harajuku Kawaii (cute n deadly mangapop) 

 25. Communist Utilities (austere Maoist practicality) 

 26. Neo-Victorian (frock coats; cravats; waistcoats; corsets) 
3 1. Maximalist Tattoos (your body is a work of art) 
3 2. Vinyl Overcoat (coloured or transparent plastic) 
3 3. Gaudy Sportswear (so much branded nylon and lycra...) 
3 4. Denims (faded black or classic blue) 
3 5. Body Sleeve (figure-hugging lycra; aerodynamic) 
3 6. Morphwear (alterable; pre-program a variety of styles) 
4 1. Smart Prints (bold migrating animated designs) 
4 2. Cargo Shorts (and most likely a fanny-pack) 

 43. Big Goggles (retro, industrial, mil-spec, or sci-fi) 
4 4. Many Piercings (metal detectors just love you) 

 45. Urban Cowpunk (Stetsons and ‘gatorskin boots) 

 46. Tactical Turtleneck (plus khaki cargo pants) 

23 //Meant to inspire, not limit. Like their style, a player’s PC is all their own.



characters
5 1. Neo-Renaissance (slashes, ruffs and lace) 

 52. Jumpsuit (multi-pocketed and practical) 
5 3. Bomber Jacket (cracked leather; fur collar; insignia) 
5 4. BondagePunk (spikes, leather, chains, gas mask) 
5 5. Vendomat Disposables (recycled fibres and plastics) 

 56. Heavy Knitwear (feel the quality) 
6 1. Anarchic Makeup (bamboozles facial recognition systems) 
6 2. Neoprene (synthetic rubber all-weather-wear) 

 63. Goth (you don’t own a garment that isn’t black) 
6 4. Greaser-Retro (quiffs, sneakers, biker jackets) 
6 5. Martial Artiste (karategi, daoist robes, doboks, etc.) 
66. Tech Hair (synth-hair; alterable colour/style/length) 
 
a la mode 2: aesthetic accessories 
I t’s the little extras... Roll 2d6 
0 2. Wraparound Mirrored Visor 
0 3. Do-rag/bandana 
0 4. Utility Vest/Webbing 
0 5. Tons of Jewellery 

 06. Tactical Gloves 
0 7. Feather Boa 
0 8. Beanie Hat/Baseball Cap 
0 9. Designer Shoes 
1 0. Vinyl Gloves 
1 1. Oni Mask 
12. Badges/Patches

//Warning: Wacky looks can result from these tables. You were warned. 24



corporations

corporations 
A selection of the implied setting’s top transnationals, the companies 
at the very top of the capitalist food-chain (there are others dotted 
throughout this book). GMs should create as many corporations 
and their subsidiaries as they need for their campaign. The more 
the merrier. And remember, they hate each other just as much as 
they hate the little guy. 
 
Use this table to generate an adversary or former employer for 
your new PCs. Or if you’re just stuck for a bad guy. 
 
R oll 2d6 
0 2..  Kanawa-Mendez®  
 Complex and highly diversified global conglomerate. 
0 3. Dornier Orbital® 
03. Dornier Orbital® 
 04. Cradle Biolabs®

Investments, vac  uuculture and zero-gee manufacturing specialist. 
00 45..  CIsrhaidtelek iB Aioulgambse®n tation® 

 Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and agricultural innovation. 
 06. Komatsu Systems® 
05. Ishiteki Augmentation® 
 7. Genexus® 
 Augmentation, robotics and computing. 
0 
08. Clavel Industries® 

6. Komatsu Systems® 

  
09. AHna yuambubsreal lHa-egarvoyu Ipn douf shtyrbiers

®
idi zed transnational corporate entities. 

0 170..  GChenererxyu Bsl®o ssom Orbital® 

 1 Biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. 
 1. Sentry Military Technologies® 
0182..  COlracvhealr Idn Tdeucshtrnieoslo®g ies®

 Cybrid and augmentation development and manufacture. 
09. Hayabusa Heavy Industries® 

 Industrial holdings, engineering, robotics and construction giant. 
10. Cherry Blossom Orbital® 

 AI and other expert systems and software. 
11. Sentry Military Technologies® 

 Arms manufacturing and private military contractor. 
12. Orchard Technologies® 

Software, computing and consumer electronics.

25 //Corporations can have diverse interests, not just in a single marketplace.



the game

game structure 
A referee controls and describes the world to the players, who then 
describe how their characters (PCs) act in the world. The referee will 
then call for an Action Roll should the situation warrant it. 
 
the action roll 
When an action’s success is uncertain, a player rolls 2d6 and adds 
points from the relevant stat and a point for each relevant item used 
(and an extra point for Background, if it makes sense - the GM is the 
final arbiter on relevance). If the total is equal to or greater than the 
action’s Difficulty Score (DS), it is successful. 
 
dangerous action roll 
If an Action Roll has a risk of physical danger, such as in combat, 
the difference between the dice roll and Difficulty Score (DS) is the 
a mount of damage the endangered participant takes to Resilience. 
Examples 
As an action, Tanner (a PC) gets into close combat with a member 
of the Zone Bosses gang who has a Difficulty Score of 10. The player 
rolls 2d6 and adds 2 from the character’s Morphology score, 1 for 
Tanner’s katana, and 1 for his kevlar jacket. Tanner’s Action Roll total 
is 12. The difference between 12 and 10 is 2, so the Zoner takes 
2 damage. A non player character’s DS is also their Resilience Points, 
so now the Zoner’s Difficulty Score is 8. If the player’s roll had been 
a total of 8 (2 less than the DS of 10), then Tanner would have lost 
2  Resilience instead of the Zone Boss. 
Elsewhere, another PC, Katya Kaiser, fires her Hideyoki shard gun 
at a Genexus agent shooting at her (DS10). Katya’s player rolls 2d6, 
adding 1 for her Reaction, 1 for the shard pistol, another 1 for the 
explosive flechettes it fires, and 1 for her spiderweave armour vest. 
She rolls 10 on the dice, adds the 4 points for a total of 14, so the 
Genexus goon takes 4 points of damage. Next round, the NPC 
agent’s DS will be down to 6. If Katya’s player had attained a total 
Action Roll score of 7 (3 less than the DS of 10), it would have been 
Katya that received the damage (3 points) from the agent’s shots 
instead. 

//Remember, an NPC’s DS already includes weapons/armour/augments. 26



the game

difficulty score guidelines 
 
  Easy:                           8 
  Moderate:                10 
  Challenging:            12 
  Hard:                        14 
  Formidable:            16 
  Extreme:                  18 
 Impossible:            20 
 
 
glitch and upgrade dice 
These are extra dice added to the Action Roll by the referee, 
depending on the circumstances during the game. Only the referee 
can determine if and when a player needs to roll the Glitch or 
Upgrade dice. 
 
The GLITCH dice is a third d6 rolled during an Action Roll, requested 
by the referee when they feel the character is at a disadvantage. 
From the three dice rolled, keep the two worst scores for the Action 
Roll result. 
 
For example, a character may have faulty or damaged implants, 
or has sustained a wound that may affect the chances of their 
action’s success.  
 
The UPGRADE dice is a third d6 which the referee will ask the player 
to roll when performing an action, when they think the character has 
gained a situational advantage. From the three dice rolled, keep the 
best two scores as the result of your Action Roll. 
 
For example, a character may have prepared well, set a solid ambush, 
done in-depth research, or brought the most suitable gear for the job, 
increasing their chances of success. 
 
Upgrade dice can cancel out Glitch dice, and vice versa. 

27 //Try not to go too heavy on Glitch, or be too generous with Upgrade.



the game

exceptional success and failure 
A player rolling a double six on an Action Roll achieves an exceptional 
success, and allows that player to roll another d6 and add it to their 
total. If that d6 also scores a six, it can be rolled again and added 
to the total. Keep rolling those sixes, keep adding them on. 
 
Rolling a double one means the character has failed spectacularly, 
and the player needs to pass a Moderate Equilibrium roll (10+) on 2d6 
to keep their nerve and carry on, assuming the character survives the 
Dangerous Action. If they fail the Equilibrium roll, they give up or bug 
out, depending on the character and the situation. In addition to any 
Resilience damage taken, the GM also has the final say on the 
specifics of that character’s particular calamity. 
 
multiple actions 
Attempting to perform multiple actions in one round, such as shooting 
twice, shooting while driving, fending off two system operators, etc., 
requires ALL of the actions that round to be rolled with the Glitch dice. 
 
assisted actions 
If a PC is assisted in a task by another character (either a PC or 
an NPC), they gain a +1 to their Action Roll for being helped out, 
assuming the assistant is actually competent enough. 
 
no initiative, only reaction 
As this is a player-facing game, most, if not all, dice rolls are intended 
to be undertaken by the players, rather than the GM. So, what do we 
do about situations which require an initiative roll? Whether an attack 
is initiated by a PC or an NPC, it will be the PC that makes their attack 
roll (with Reaction) to determine the outcome. This initial, forced 
Reaction-based Dangerous Action roll serves as a proxy-initiative roll. 
 
Example: 
A Hideyoki company agent has tailed a PC to a bar and makes her 
move. Walking up to the seated PC, she pulls a shard gun from her 
overcoat and pulls the trigger. The PC rolls a Dangerous Action Roll 
vs the agent’s DS in reaction to the shots. If they fail, the PC takes the 
difference in damage. If they pass, the Hideyoki agent does so instead.  

//With no initiative roll required, detailed description of actions is key. 28



combat

combat actions 
 
FULL AUTO 
Full auto attacks give a +4 bonus to the Action Roll, but empty the 
weapon’s magazine. 
 
BURST FIRE 
Burst fire gives a +2 bonus to the Action Roll, up to three times before 
the magazine is spent. 
 
AIMING 
Aiming gains a +1 bonus per round spent scoping the target, for up to 
a maximum of 3 rounds. 
 
SUPPRESSIVE FIRE 
If a PC declares the intent to use suppressive fire, they need to make 
a full auto attack (+4 and the weapon’s magazine is emptied). 
 
 • If the fire zone is less than 1m wide, roll with Upgrade. 
• If the fire zone is up to 2m wide, roll the normal full auto attack 
 (+4 and the weapon’s magazine is emptied). 
•  If the fire zone is up to 3m, this attack is now only +2 (mag emptied). 
•  If the fire zone is up to 4m, this attack is now only +1 (mag emptied). 
• If the fire zone is up to 5m or more, roll the attack with no auto fire 

bonus (+0), plus the Glitch dice (mag emptied). 
 
Anyone exposed within the fire zone takes damage if the suppressive 
fire roll exceeds their DS, as normal. Should the attack fail to beat any 
target’s DS, they are pinned and cannot shoot back this round. 
Remember, the shooter’s weapon is now empty as per the Full Auto 
rule. If NPCs are in good cover, such as behind concrete pillars, or 
trucks, again no damage is applied, and they are pinned in place 
allowing other PCs to advance on their position. 
 
If a PC is caught in a suppressive fire zone, they roll a Moderate 
Action Roll, adding Equilibrium, to avoid being pinned down. If there 
are multiple shooters, the roll is Challenging and the Glitch dice is 
also used. Good cover (see above) also applies to hunkered down PCs. 

29 //Try not to get too caught up in exactitude. Keep the action fast and furious.



combat
POINT BLANK 
Shots fired at point blank range (less than 1m) gain a +3 bonus. 
 
RELOADING 
Reloading a fire arm takes one combat round. A player may choose 
to rush the reload and take a snap shot, but must roll their attack 
with the Glitch dice. 
 
FAST DRAWS 
Fast drawing a handgun, SMG, or melee weapon means the PC’s 
initial (and only) Action Roll is rolled with the Glitch dice. Subsequent 
actions are not subject to this Fast Draw penalty. 
 
SHOTGUNS 
Shotguns do +3 damage point blank, +2 close proximity, and can hit 
up to 3 bunched targets at range. Autoshotguns can also full auto 
and burst fire as the standard rule, but still hit up to 3 bunched targets. 
 
NPC SNIPERS 
The PC targeted by the hidden sniper must succeed at a Dangerous 
Action Roll (adding Reaction) versus the sniper’s DS, taking damage 
as usual if the PC fails. If they pass the roll, the sniper does not take 
damage, but their concealed position is revealed (the muzzle flash 
is spotted, the angle of the shot gives them away, gunsmoke is seen, 
etc.). The sniper then becomes a regular combatant, albeit one at 
a distance, unless they change their position. 
 
GRENADES 
Throwing a grenade is a Moderate Action Roll, and uses the Reaction 
stat. Grenades do +3 damage in open spaces and +6 damage within 
confined spaces. Everyone in the blast radius of 5m (or inside the 
confined space) takes the same amount of damage. If a PC is faced 
with a grenade, an Action Roll with Reaction vs DS12 is required. 
 
GMs can tweak the initial Action Roll to use a grenade, making it 
easier or harder, dependant on the situation, or apply the Glitch or 
Upgrade dice. The GM could even allow no roll at all, if the PC is just 
posting the grenade through a gap, but that removes the possibility 
of rolling a double one. And that’s no fun. 

//If a rule doesn’t make sense at your table, talk to your players and change it. 30



combat
EXPLOSIVES 
Planted explosives (using detonators or triggers) do 2d6 to 4d6 
damage, dependent on type. Explosive charges always do their 
minimum damage. 
 
If a PC is up against a planted explosive device, the GM should 
assign a Difficulty Score to it which the PC needs to be beat with 
a Dangerous Action Roll, using their Reaction stat. For example, 
a monowire mine might be DS16, a tripwire claymore DS14, etc. 
If a double one is rolled, the device inflicts double damage. 
 
MONOFILAMENT 
Monofilament edged weapons negate armour (so it can’t be added 
to an attackers Action Roll total) and will do +1 damage, but only if 
the target was already unarmoured in the first place. 
 
FIRE & ACID DAMAGE 
Both fire and acid inflict repeating damage, for up to 3 rounds. 
 
DAMAGE FROM FALLING 
Falling damage is worked out as 1 point of damage for every 
3 metres fallen (rounded up). 
 
DROWNING 
To avoid drowning, a Dangerous Action Roll is required, using 
the Morphology stat, with a -1 for each item in your Loadout. 
The Difficulty Score to beat depends on the conditions: DS8 for 
calm water, DS10 for flowing, DS12 for fast flowing, DS14 for 
storm conditions, DS16 for icy water, DS18 huge waves, etc. 
 
BRINGING A KNIFE TO A GUNFIGHT 
When a melee weapon armed PC wants to attack someone with 
a firearm, the melee attacker rolls their Dangerous Action Roll (as 
a standard attack). If the target is unaware, add the Upgrade dice. 
 
If the attacker doesn’t beat the target’s DS, the shooter fires before 
they close, the melee attacker taking damage. If the attacker beats 
the DS, they manage to close the distance, injuring the target. 
 
A PC being attacked with a melee weapon rolls Reaction vs NPC DS. 

31 //Use the actions listed to inform your choices if a situation isn’t covered.



combat
ARMOUR CAN BE SLAGGED 
Armour may be sacrificed to negate a Critical Injury once, but it 
is then too damaged and useless and must be replaced; it cannot 
be repaired. 
 
SPECIALITY MUNITIONS 
Unusual ammunition, such as explosive flechettes, add a further 
bonus to Action Rolls (see the Action Roll example). Some examples 
can be found in the Ammo Options table on page 33. 
 
THE OPTIONAL HOLLYWOOD HORDES RULE 
A mob of low-level NPCs has a single DS equal to the number in the 
group, e.g: eight street gang members would be DS8. Any points of 
damage inflicted on the group equates to the number of punks taken 
out of action. 
 
VEHICLES IN COMBAT  
Vehicle versus vehicle fights can be resolved much like PC versus 
NPC combats (see Dangerous Actions on page 20), but with each 
vehicle’s DS being taken in to account.  
 
Example  
A corporate limo (DS12) stops at a red light. Inside, there’s an exec 
(DS10), two security professionals (DS14) and the driver (DS12).  
Two PCs pull up next to it on a motorcycle, the PC bike passenger 
going full auto (+4) with an assault rifle. She needs to beat the limo’s 
DS12. With her Reaction of 3, +1 for the rifle, the full auto +4, a +1 for 
AP ammo, and a 2d6 roll of 7, she gets a total of 16. So, the limo’s DS 
will be reduced by 4. 
 
The limo is riddled with bullets and is now DS8. The limo’s occupants 
also take incoming fire (the PC roll of 16 vs each NPC’s DS number); 
the exec is now DS4 (10 -6), the security detail is now DS12 (14 -2), 
and the driver is down to DS8 (12 -4).  
 
The other PC motorcyclist then does a quick burst from his SMG. 
Reaction 1, +1 SMG, +2 burst fire and a roll of 3 gives him a total of 7. 
The limo takes superficial (none) damage and is still DS8. But, the 
hapless exec takes stray SMG rounds, dropping him to DS1! 

//It is worth remembering that any kind of situation can be given a DS. 32



vehicles
The driver takes no further damage and begins to accelerate rather 
than shoot back. However, the two security guards return fire, each 
doing 5 points of damage to each PC (the player’s total of 7 is 5 points 
less than the guards’ DS12 - the GM deciding not to concentrate fire 
on just one PC).  
 
The next round begins as the shot-up limo attempts to accelerate 
away (potentially becoming a chase)…  
 
Important: Vehicles can be unarmoured and these can be damaged 
with standard, character-sized small arms. Or they can be armoured 
for combat roles, needing specialised heavy weapons to deal with 
them. See Appendix: 2 Metal Express for much more information 
on vehicles and vehicle design (page 92). 
 
vehicle classifications  
Every vehicle has its own Difficulty Score rating (DS), just like an 
NPC. However, this does not mean an NPC is ‘as strong as a sedan’,  
or vice versa, it is simply an abstract representation of how much 
of a beating it can take from player characters. 
`            
 • Motorcycle^ /Jet-ski /Snowmobile                                       DS8 
 • Car^ / Boat / Spinner*                                                                DS10 
 • Limo^ / Big Car / SUV / Van                                                      DS12 
 • Truck^ / Bus / Barge                                                                  DS16 
 • Armoured Personnel Carrier^                                                  DS18 
 • Tank^                                                                                           DS20 
 • Ship^ /Submarine                                                                      DS20 
 • Train# (per car)                                                                          DS18 
 • VTOL (helicopter / tilt-rotor / hopper)*                                   DS16 
 • Small Aircraft*                                                                           DS14 
 • Medium Aircraft*                                                                       DS16 
 • Big Aircraft*                                                                                DS18  
 • Lighter-Than-Air (airship / blimp)                                         DS12 
 • Exoskeleton / Powered Armour / Tanksuit*                          DS14 
 • Walker*                                                                                        DS16 

33 //Describe vehicles in a way that makes them feel real and believable.



vehicles
* Optionally jet-powered (for VTOL, that’s hoppers, spinners, jumpjets 
and tilt-jets, for aircraft, that’s jets, for exoskeletons and walkers, 
that’s jet-assisted jumping or even flight/hover mode).  

 
^ Optionally air cushioned (hovercraft). 
 
# Includes classic railroad vehicles, monorail and maglev trains. 
Note that the DS of attacking a train is 8 (they can’t really maneuver, 
though they can move fast), unless it is shooting back at you - and 
trains can mount a lot of weapons.  

 
Durable Vehicles: This type of vehicle can take much more punish-
ment. The GM should feel free to adjust the values listed above to 
represent tougher (or more fragile) examples. 
 
vehicle maneuvers 
 
  DS8   - Driving in usual city traffic.Takeoffs and landings. 

Swerving (to avoid an obstacle in your path).  
 
  DS10 - Hard brake/emergency stop. Hovering (VTOL only). 
 
  DS12 - Tight turn (45°+). Steep climb/dive (aerial only). 

Controlled skids and drifting. 
 
  DS14 - Rotate on vehicle centre upto 90° (VTOL only). 

Bootlegger turn (180° rotation for ground vehicles). 
 
  DS16 - Acrobatics (such as top speed in reverse, then a tight 

turn), or aerobatics (like fast loops, flying upside down). 
 
  DS18 - Stunts, like jumping the gap between buildings, or VTOLs 

using their tilt-jets to ‘bounce’ off a building. 
 
  DS20 - Traversing a narrow gap at top speed (like a tunnel, 

or a tight space between skyscrapers). 
 
MANEUVER ADVANTAGES 
Worth a bonus to the roll (or even Upgrade dice) - going relatively 
slowly, having lots of free space to maneuver, having a clear and 
unobstucted view, firing at a stationary target. 

//Players should be encouraged to look for ways to gain an advantage. 34



death and injury
MANEUVER DISADVANTAGES 
Requiring a penalty to the roll (or even Glitch dice) - going very fast, 
having to maneuver in tight spaces, traversing unreliable ground or 
choppy air or water, restricted view, major distractions, attempting to 
perform another action at the same time, being shot at, shooting 
from a speeding vehicle (unless you are using the vehicle’s built-in 
armament which is stabilised for use on the move). 
 
CHASES 
A PC driver/pilot rolls vs their opponent’s DS (+2 if they’re in 
an obviously faster vehicle, +1 for each round of the chase already 
‘won’, representing the lead gained. If the PC loses a round of the 
chase, their roll is reduced by -1 per round). Apply Upgrade dice 
for any obvious advantage, or Glitch dice for disadvantage, such 
as cluttered terrain, poor conditions, etc. 
 
character death 
When a character’s Resilience reaches zero, they will begin to take 
critical damage until they die. Critical damage represents serious 
wounds, shock and blood loss. The referee rolls 2d6 (one for wounds, 
one for location) to determine both the severity of the injuries and the 
body location affected. 
 
C ritical Injuries Table (first d6) 
1. Drop weapons, superficial cuts, wind knocked out of you, 
 bruised, dazed, knockdown 
2. Dislocations, shattered or broken weapons, numbed limbs 
 or body parts 
3 . Incapacitated limbs, deep wounds, smashed teeth, broken bones 
4 . Severed arteries, internal bleeding, spine injuries, gouged eyes 
5. Portion of a limb lost, organs ruptured, bleeding out, artery 
 severed, stunned 
6. Entire limb lost, body parts hacked in half, shock and blood 
 loss, edge of consciousness 
7+ Eviscerated, flying body parts, arterial spray, death in 1 round 

35 //Keep chases high-octane and exciting, rather than sticking to exact rules.



death and injury
B ody Locations (second d6) 
1 . Leg (nearest or most logical) 
2 . Torso 
3 . Torso 
4 . Torso 
5 . Arm (nearest or most logical) 
6. Head 
 
If a character has already taken critical damage, the next roll on the 
injury table is rolled with a +3. Once a PC has taken a critical injury, 
they will be rolling all further Action Rolls using the Glitch Dice, until 
they have received medical attention. 
 
When an NPC’s DS reaches zero, they die. The referee may also 
choose to use the critical injuries for the major NPCs in their 
campaign. 
 
Cybernetic limbs take damage as normal, but simply break or shut 
down when taking Critical Injuries, and can be repaired by a fairly 
competent tech. If the location rolled is primarily an augmented one, 
such as a cybernetic arm or leg, use the following table instead: 
 
C yberlimb Malfunctions Due To Damage (2d6) 
2.   All maintenance ports and hatches pop open and will 
 not stay closed 
3.   The limb straightens out and briefly locks at random 
 intervals a couple of times a day 
4.   Whenever the limb is moved there is audible metal on 
 metal grinding sound 
5.   All attempted movements are done at half the speed 
 as usual 
6.   All attempted movements are done at twice the speed 
 as usual 
7.   The limb trembles and shakes constantly (Glitch to task rolls) 

//Damaged cyberlimbs are a great way to part PCs from their bityuan. 36



cybershell damage
8.   Every two hours exactly the limb shuts down and reboots, 
 which takes five minutes 
9.   Becomes exceedingly hot; unless the limb is deactivated, 
 it will burn out quickly 
10. Continued smell of an electrical fire, after six hours the 
 limb is completely inactive 
11. The power drains quickly and must now be manually 
 recharged with a plug-in port every 2d6 hours 
12. Catches fire internally and cannot be put out by standard 

fire extinguishers; burns out and needs replacing 
 
cybershell damage 
When a fully cyborged character’s Resilience reaches zero, they will 
begin to take critical damage, which is slightly different for those 
with cybershells. Critical shell damage represents serious damage, 
system shock and malfunction. 2d6; one for damage, one for area. 
 
C ritical Cybershell Damage Table (first d6) 
1. Drop weapons, chipped, dented, wind knocked out of you, 
 dazed, knockdown 
2. Dislocated cyberlimbs, shattered or broken weapons, 
 interrupted haptic feedback from limbs or body parts 
3. Shut down limbs, deep damage, smashed casing, bent 
 endo-skeleton, sparking joints 
4. Crushed arteries, internal fluid loss, spine injuries, shattered 
 eyes, smoking, holed chassis 
5. Portion of a limb lost, organ creche ruptured, bleeding out, 
 organic artery severed, stunned, tremors 
6. Entire limb lost, body parts hacked in half, loss of motor 
 function, edge of consciousness, power drain 
7+ Scrapped, flying body sections, hydraulic spray, electrical 

fires, uncontrolled flailing, death in 1 round 
 

37 //Standard shells are humanoid, but other non-standard forms are possible.



healing and advancement
Cybershell Body Locations (second d6) 
 
1 . Leg (nearest or most logical) 
2 . Torso (or a limb, if the shell has more than four) 
3 . Torso 
4 . Torso (or a limb if the shell has more than four) 
5 . Arm (nearest or most logical) 
6. Head (if there is one, torso hit if shell is headless) 
 
If a character has already taken critical damage, the next roll on the 
injury table is rolled with a +3. Once a PC has taken critical damage, 
they will be rolling all further Action Rolls using the Glitch Dice, until 
they have undergone repairs. 
 
healing 
Regain all lost Resilience Points by spending 8 hours resting in 
a safe area. For a quick fix, apply a Lazarus Patch to immediately 
recover 3 Resilience Points. An allied character with a first aid kit 
who performs a successful Cognition based Action Roll will gain the 
injured PC 2 Resilience Points. Stuns recover in full once combat ends. 
 
Critical Injuries cannot be healed this way and the PC must be 
attended by a medical professional with the right equipment. 
 
character advancement 
Level up at the end of each completed mission. Each level up, 
a player may raise either a Stat score, Resilience or Loadout by 1. 
GMs may decide on a fixed upper limit on Stats and Resilience scores.  
 
Alternatively, slower character progression in campaigns can be 
achieved by introducing Advancement Points, with each advance 
costing 100APs, limited to one advancement choice, as above. 
Surviving a game session (while contributing) may be worth around 
10APs, for example. 
 
Edges (if used) may also be advanced up to a maximum of +3. 

//High tech hospitals are the fastest, safest way to heal Critical Injuries. 38



loadout

loadout 
Your Loadout score is how many bulky items your PC can carry 
comfortably. For each item that exceeds your Loadout score, 
subtract 1 from any Morphology or Reaction rolls. 
 
weapons and armour 
 
GUNS, GUNS, GUNS 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Haldane & Kluvis® HAK G55 10mm SMG (SS/B/FA) 
0 3. Charon® PKD-45 Police Special Revolver (SS) 

 04. Hideyoki® Shard Gun Flechette Pistol (SS/B) 

 05. Echo International® KR-16 5.56 Assault Rifle (SS/B/FA) 
0 6. Sony-Diahatsu® Type-6 PLP Pulse Laser Pistol (SS/B) 

 07. Haunt® M10 Anti-material Sniper Rifle System (SS) 
0 8. Kalashnikov® AK-91R 7.62 Assault Rifle (SS/B/FA) 
0 9. Echo International® Nemesis 10mm Semiautomatic (SS) 

 10. Armcor® Diamondback 10mm Machinepistol (B/FA) 
1 1. Sentry® P226 9mm Semiautomatic (SS) 
1 2. KRYSS® Venom 11mm Modular SMG (SS/B/FA) 
*SS is Single Shot, B is Burst, FA is Full Auto 
 
AMMO OPTIONS 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Hellfires (incendiary rounds - sets target on fire) 
0 3. Shredders (monomolecular filaments - ignore armour) 
0 4. LN2s (liquid nitrogen slugs - armour freezes and shatters) 
0 5. Splinters (fragmenting rounds - +1 damage) 

 06. High Explosive (rounds detonate on impact - +2 damage) 
07. Moisture-responsive HE (detonate when get wet - +2 damage) 

39 //Handguns hold around 10 shots, SMGs 20 to 30, assault rifles 30 to 40.



loadout

 08. Depleted Uranium (high penetration rounds - destroy armour) 
0 9. Jelly Rounds (non-lethal, stun only) 
1 0. Gas (tear, sleep, or biotoxin) 

 11. Acid (armour ruined after initial impact) 
12. Hollowpoint (enhanced penetration - ignore armour) 
 
MELEE WEAPONS 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Hideyoki® Monomolecular Knife 

 03. Carbon Steel Katana 
0 4. Graphene Nunchaku/Tonfa 

 05. Sentry® Electro-knux™ (powered knuckleduster) 

 06. Polymer Shuriken 

 07. Ceramic Switchblade 
0 8. Mono-dao (monomolecular sword) 
0 9. Sledgehammer 
1 0. Steel Telescoping Baton 
1 1. Chain 
12. Club 
 
 WEAPON RANGE GUIDE 
  50m.......Handguns, Small Submachineguns, Shotguns 
  100m.....Submachineguns, QBZ® Leong Incinerator 
  300m.....Assault Rifles, HAK® G40 Rhino GL 
 1000m...Heavy Weapons, Haunt® M10 Sniper Rifle 
 
I f you really need to know the number of shots a weapon can fire 
b efore reloading, as a guide revolvers hold 6 rounds, pistols 12, 
S MGs 20, assault rifles 30, flechette weapons 50, sniper rifles 10,  
L MGs and SAWs 100, autoshotguns 20, auto-GLs 12 and RPGs 1.

//Stun damage is like normal damage, but recovered in full after the encounter. 40



loadout
HEAVY WEAPONS 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Sentry® M-88 RPG (SS) 
0 3. Haunt® LAW Light Anti-Tank Weapon (SS/disposable) 
0 4. Echo International® KS-49 5.56 SAW (SS/B/FA) 

 05. Armcor® Accelerator-AP 18mm Railgun (SS/B/FA) 

 06. Sentry® Shredder Portable Minigun (ammo for 8x B or 4x FA) 
0 7. Hideyoki® L5 Heavy Chemical Laser Weapon (SS/B) 
0 8. HAK® G40 Rhino 40mm Grenade Launcher (SS/B/FA) 
0 9. Echo International® K-60A .50cal Machinegun (B/FA) 

 10. Barrett® AT3 .50cal Anti-Tank/Anti-Borg Rifle (SS/B) 
11. Haunt® EMP-1 Electro Magnetic Pulse Rifle [stun] (SS) 

(stun damage only, plus DS14 Morphology roll to avoid 
 augmentations shutting down for d6 rounds) 

 12. QBZ® Leong Portable Incinerator Unit (SS/B) 
*SS is Single Shot, B is Burst, FA is Full Auto 
 
WEAPON MODIFICATIONS 
R oll 2d6 
0 2. Targeting scope (+1 bonus to aiming) 
0 3. Custom grips (+1 to standard shooting rolls) 

 04. Gyro-stabilisation (+1 bonus to burst fire) 
0 5. Bio-lock (no-one else can operate the firearm without your DNA) 
0 6. IFF chipping (won’t shoot designated friendlies using IFF shards) 

 07. Teleoperation link (can be fired remotely) 

 08. Folding bipod (+1 bonus to aiming) 
0 9. Silencer/suppressor (muffles report and muzzle flash)  
1 0. Electronic trigger (faster; shooter can fire twice with no Glitch) 
11. Extended magazine/drum mag (full auto twice, or fire six bursts 
 before reloading is required) 
12. Smart targeting system (all shooting rolls use Upgrade dice) 

41 //Weapon mods might be counterfeit or glitchy. Do the PCs trust their source?



loadout
PERSONAL DRONES 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Situational Awareness (bonus to spotting hostiles) 

 03. Targeting (bonus to co-ordinated team shooting) 

 04. Buddy Bot® (a small, helpful, and loyal companion) 
0 5. Holo Emitter (programmable holographic projectors) 

 06. Surveillance (audio visual secure broadcasting) 

 07. Defence (extra micro-missile or flechette attack*) 
0 8. Medi-drone (medical assistance, heals 2 Resilience) 
0 9. Bomb (explosive device, 3d6 damage, single use) 

 10. Assassin (tiny stealth drone, three single shots*) 
1 1. Tracker (follow a designated target, transmits location) 
1 2. Ortillery Spotter (pinpoint a target for orbital artillery strike) 
*see the Ammo Options table on page 39 
 
PERSONAL PROTECTION / BODY ARMOUR 
R oll 2d6 
0 2. Motorcycle Leathers 

 03. Arachnoweave Sleeve (figure-hugging second skin) 
0 4. Carbon Fibre Flak Vest 
0 5. Laser-ablative Fabric (only effective vs lasers) 
0 6. Impact Gel Inserts 
0 7. Ceramic Plate (hard armour shell, in sections) 
0 8. Heavy Kevlar Jacket 
09. Exo-frame (doubles Loadout score until you take it off; 
 +1 Morphology) 
10. Coil Suit (light-absorbing, black, myomar body suite; 
 artificial muscle fibres confer +1 to Reaction) 
11. Flame Retardant Sleeve (thin body sleeve; only one round 
 of fire damage applies) 
12. Heavy Leather Overcoat 

//All armour adds +1 in a fight. Cutting-edge gear might be +2 or +3. 42



cybernetic augmentations

augmentations 
Cybernetic implants are interfaced with the PC’s meat body, and 
therefore don’t count towards the Loadout total. These can be 
anything from pop-out blades, to thermal optics, amped hearing, 
pneumatic fists, or jacked-up reflexes. 
 
EXAMPLE AUGMENTATIONS 
R oll 2d6 

 02. Sentry® Military Grade Neurochem (+1 to Reaction) 
0 3. Ishiteki Augmentation® Muscle Matrix (+1 Morphology) 
04. Clavel Industries® Combat Neurolink (weapon link; 
 +1 to shooting) 

 05. Dornier Orbital® Neural Lattice (+1 Cognition) 

 06. Sentry® Amped Hearing (+1 to Cognition when listening) 

 07. Genexus® NeoDerm (toughened skin; +1 Resilience) 

 08. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Slicers (retractable 10" monoblades) 
09. Komatsu® Full-spectrum Optics (infrared, thermal, 
 low-light vision) 
10. Cradle Biolabs® Filter Lungs (unaffected by gas and 
 airborne toxins) 
1 1. Clavel Industries® Savvy Jack (input socket for skill shards) 
12. Cybernetic Limb (generic prosthetics; chromed, plastic, etc.) 
 
 
“So, you had that installed black market, in an alleyway chop shop? Brave.” 
 
CHEAP STREET-TECH QUIRKS 
R oll 2d6 
0 2. Tremors 
0 3. Lapses in concentration 
0 4. Phantom feedback 
05. Clashing inputs 

43 //If cheap tech quirks are a hindrance, PCs roll with Glitch until it’s addressed.



cybernetic augmentations
0 6. Itching 
0 7. Random bleeds 
0 8. Palpitations 
0 9. Muscle spasms 
1 0. Neurological pain 
1 1. Perception glitches 
12. Twitches 
 
ADDITIONAL AUGMENTATIONS 
R oll d66 (roll two dice, one being the tens, the other, units) 
11. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Myomar Tendons 

Enhanced musculature that can be added to, and strengthen, 
standard cybernetic limbs (+1 Morphology) 

 
12. Komatsu Systems® Vigilance Suite 

Diagnostic network that warns the host against unauthorised 
cyber-system access and infiltrations via hacking 

 
13. Sentry® Exo-plating 

Armoured body plating in a variety of styles and finishes, 
originally designed for military use in war zones (+1 Resilience) 

 
14. Pop-up Weapon [Various Manufacturers] 

A firearm implanted in the forearm, from modified handguns up 
to SMGs/carbines in size, with compact flamers a feasible option 

 
15. Hayabusa Heavy Industries® Linear Frame 

Similar to the exo-frame, but surgically linked and fused to the 
wearer’s body, the linear frame boosts strength significantly 
(Loadout is doubled and +1 to both Morphology and Resilience) 

 
16. Dornier Orbital® Vehicle Interface 

When plugged in to a compatible vehicle, the Dornier® V/I 
enhances a driver or pilot’s response time, with controls operated 
at the speed of thought (+1 Reaction when in control of a vehicle) 

//Option: Limit the number of Augments equal to the PC’s Equilibrium score. 44



cybernetic augmentations
21. Genexus® Bio-auditor 

Monitors the hosts vital signs, with a visual display on the inner 
forearm showing requested data (anyone attempting a medical 
procedure on the host gains a +1 bonus, and the host gains a +1 
to resist torture and narcotic addiction) 

 
22. Genexus® Pain Blocker 

This small implant blocks pain signals to the brain, and can be 
toggled on and off by the user (a PC or NPC with a pain blocker 
suffering a Critical Injury can ignore the requirement to roll their 
subsequent actions with the addition of the Glitch dice) 

 
23. Kanawa-Mendez® Spider Optics 

A bank of eight linked cyberoptic modules, mounted in the 
orbital ridges and cheekbones, allowing 20x zoom and a 270° 
field-of-vision, as well as enabling the host to toggle between 
UV, IR and thermal imaging (+1 Cognition to spotting rolls in both 
normal light levels and darkness) 

 
24. Genexus® Softdrive 

Installed in the prefrontal cortex, this implant enables the storing 
of large amounts of data, privately and securely, but with the loss 
of a significant amount of the host’s memories (data retrieval 
is triggered by the host hearing a preset password, entering 
idiot-savant mode for the duration of the ‘download’) 

 
25. Clavel Industries® Cortical Archive 

Also known as an ‘arc’, this rare and expensive implant records 
and stores a rolling back-up of a host’s experiences, memory and 
personality, should they ever need ‘reskinning’ into a (usually) 
cloned body 

 
26. Komatsu Systems® Striking Cobra 

Prehensile melee weapon implanted in the host’s throat, which 
extends rapidly from the mouth to deliver a monofilament ‘bite’ 
attack (2m range; negates the target’s armour; does an extra 
+1 damage if the target is unarmoured; takes one round to reel 
back in; potential bacteria trap) 

 

45 //Keep in mind how NPCs might react to PCs loaded with Augmentations.



cybernetic augmentations
31. Cradle Biolabs® Infernoweave 

Artificial skin covering that protects the host from flames and 
extremely high temperatures 

 
32. Clavel Industries® EMP Shielding 

Defends a host’s personal augmentation network from the 
debilitating effects of an electromagnetic pulse (roll Morphology 
vs DS8 when hit by an EMP weapon to avoid augmentations 
shutting down for d6 rounds) 

 
33. Komatsu Systems® Skull Gun 

Bulky grey module fitted into and over the forehead, forming 
a prominent artificial brow ridge, lined with rows of tiny holes 
and houses a flechette delivery system (SS/B/FA) reloaded 
via a port in the temple 

 
34. Cradle Biolabs® Dispensary 

Pharmaceutical delivery system that can hold up to four 
different chemical substances which can be dispensed into 
the host’s bloodstream at will, or by pre-set timer; chemical 
cartridges can be refilled 

 
35. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Nanodocs 

Dormant nanites distributed around the host’s system, 
programmed to wake and react rapidly to any injury sustained, 
repairing tissue at source (when the character’s Resilience 
reaches 0, they can avoid rolling a Critical Injury for d6 rounds, 
whereupon the nanodocs are overwhelmed and burn out, 
requiring a fresh installation) 

 
36. Sentry® Tac-net Comm 

An implanted communications link and radio splice for the 
military market, usually employed to form a secure and closed 
comm-net for strike teams 

 
41. Kanawa-Mendez® Hermes-class Cyberlegs 

Pair of thin digitigrade athletic blade legs, designed to enable 
the host to run at speeds up to 50mph, supplied in a variety 
of colours and styles, and R&D trials suggest that speeds in 

//More sophisticated, expensive versions may be harder to spot or detect. 46



cybernetic augmentations
excess of 70mph can be achieved when combined with spinal 
reinforcement (running and leaping rolls add an Upgrade dice) 

 
42. Kanawa-Mendez® Spinal Reinforcement 

A combination of protective casing and myomar muscle 
fibres making the host’s spine stronger and much more durable 
(+1 Morphology and +1 Resilience) 

 
43. Cradle Biolabs® Kickstarter 

Adrenal dispensers and bio-electric power banks combine to 
resuscitate the host in the event of critical trauma (the character 
can ignore Critical Injury effects for the duration of the combat, 
allowing them to keep fighting until they drop or to withdraw to 
safety and seek medical attention) 

 
44. Dornier Orbital® Mood Modulator 

This small implanted console allows the host to choose from 
a range of moods and states of mind (each mood has a duration 
of 3d6 minutes, after which time the character becomes tired, 
distracted and sullen) 

 
45. Genexus® Neuro-bridge 

Motor functions are rewired by nanosurgeons to enable the 
host to function as if they were naturally ambidextrous, with 
both hands equally dominant 

 
46. Takematsu-Hegenaur® Augmented Reality Module 

A popular plug-in enabling the host to perceive AR advertising, 
signage, guidance and other local messaging, overlade on their 
field-of-view, host has the option to toggle the module on and off 

 
51. Cradle Biolabs® Toxin Scrubbers 

An injection of nanotech in to the host’s bloodstream which 
is distributed throughout the body, hunting for toxic elements, 
especially around the lungs and other major organs (provides 
resistance to poisons, toxins, narcotics and alcohol, whether 
swallowed, injected, inhaled or absorbed) 

 
 

47 //Some Augmentations are disguised with synthetic skin (Cognition to spot).



cybernetic augmentations
52. Clavel Industries® REM-inducer 

A small implant at the base of the skull that enables the host 
to quickly enter a deep sleep for a period of their choosing, 
effectively achieving a full night’s sleep in a couple of hours 
(lost Resilience Points may be recovered in just two hours, 
rather than eight) 

 
53. Komatsu Systems® Wampyrs 

The host’s canine teeth are removed and replaced with 
retractable fangs and a toxin reservoir accessed through the 
palette (characters can perform a bite attack in melee, delivering 
a poison or narcotic stored in the implant’s reservoir, up to 
6 times before refilling) 

 
54. Hideyoki® Monowhip Digit 

The tip of a finger or thumb is replaced with a weighted 
cybernetic simulacrum attached to a 5m monowire cord, which 
can be whipped out and used as a weapon, before being reeled 
back in by a miniature motorised spool installed within the hand  

 
55. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Jacked Reflexes 

Replacement nervous system which enhances the host’s reaction 
time (requires mental activation, upon which the character rolls 
any physical Action Rolls with Upgrade dice for upto d6 minutes) 

 
56. Kanawa-Mendez® Cybershell 

The host’s body is completely replaced by an expensive 
cybernetic shell, retaining the organs in a decentralised protective 
creche; available in a variety of styles, colours, and finishes 
(confers a permanent +2 Morphology and +2 Resilience) 

 
61. Clavel Industries® Mind-Drive 

Cranial implant which enables the host to connect to and search 
the net for information as a general user, thereby functioning as 
a GPS, general knowledge database, virtual mail system and 
cellular phone, with a wide variety of downloadable apps 
available 

 
 

//Many Augmentation systems are potentially vulnerable to hacking. 48



cybernetic augmentations
62. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Scratchers 

Smaller and more subtle than Slicers, these small razor-sharp 
blades are implanted within the tips of the fingers, deploying 
from housings beneath the fingernails and are difficult to spot, 
but no less deadly 

 
63. Dornier Orbital® Voice Modulator 

Installed in the host’s throat, the modulator provides the host 
with the ability to change and amplify their voice in a variety 
of ways 

 
64. Ishiteki  Augmentation® Mirrorshades 

Mirrored lenses are implanted in to the host’s orbital ridges, 
encasing the eyes completely, protecting them from intense light, 
tear gas, dust and smoke, while providing a handy retinal display, 
and enabling low light vision 

 
65. Orchard Technologies® Machine Link 

Connect to a compatible drone, robot, auto-loader or other 
industrial technology to teleoperate it expertly (roll any control 
actions with an Upgrade dice) 

 
66. Clavel Industries® Surveillance Array 

A network of implants that includes camera optics for both 
video and still recording, digital audio recorder, motion sensors, 
environmental monitors, all linked to a reusable hard drive 

 
 
how you got your augments 
This short table is designed to inform both GM and players 
regarding the origins of their starting augmentations during character 
generation, but can also act as a springboard for ideas during 
a  campaign. 
R oll d6 
1-2. The character scrimped and saved to acquire the implants 

themselves, but cutting corners comes at a price (roll on the 
 Cheap Street Tech Quirks table on page 43 for each augment) 

49 //More elaborate tales may be woven about how augments were acquired.



cybernetic augmentations
3-4. The character received their augments through a corporate 

benefactor and, inevitably, said patron now considers you part 
of their extensive portfolio and may ‘contract’ you for anything, 

 at any time 
5-6. The character chose to fuck somebody over to get that augment 

installed, and is now being hunted by the one(s) they betrayed 
 
 
shardware 
Software options for use with the Clavel Industries® Savvy Jack, 
s tored on small solid-state polycarbon shards. 
R oll 2d6 
0 2. Kung Fu (roll hand-to-hand combat attacks with Upgrade) 

 03. Nice Guy Eddie (roll personal interactions with +1 Affinity) 
0 4. Photo Memory (recall specific info with +1 Cognition) 
0 5. Shiver Shard (appear as a vague fractal blur on CCTV) 
0 6. Tanksuit (operate powered armour with Upgrade) 
0 7. Language (specify) (read, write and speak fluently) 

 08. Style & Etiquette (present appropriately and stylishly at events) 
0 9. Felony Register (spot who’s wanted by the law, and for what) 
1 0. Vehicle Zen (roll driving/piloting actions with Upgrade) 

 11. Tech Spec (identify augments’ strengths and flaws) 
12. EMT (roll medical assistance with Upgrade) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

//Design new Shardware by keeping the skill-set super-specific. 50



hacking

burning nodes 
Hacking attempts on a system can only be performed with an 
interfaced cyberspace console, and any associated Action Rolls, 
utilise the PC’s Cognition stat. 
 
A system will have a DS, just like a non-player character, depending 
on its level of security; a basic system might be Easy (8), whereas 
a zaibatsu mainframe could be Extreme (18) - examples on page 53. 
 
Neural damage can be taken from certain secure systems, in the 
same way as physically fighting with an NPC, and again the damage 
taken is the difference between the DS and the failed hacking roll. 
 
Critical damage will most likely affect the nervous system and the 
cognitive function of the target, leading to spasms, nerve damage, 
loss of motor function, seizures, reduced IQ, involuntary physical 
actions, bugs in augmentations, neurological pain, ticks, bleeds 
and heart attacks, console burn-out, etcetera. Go wild. 
 
A character’s console will add 1 to the Action Roll (cutting-edge 
models can add more). If you can acquire them on the blackmarket, 
specialist software or ICE-breakers, as well as a hacker’s inventive 
coding, may also add further bonuses to a hacking Action Roll. 
 
Researching a system prior to the attack, obtaining current user 
passwords, or infiltrating via a back door exploit or other vulnerability, 
may allow the use of the Upgrade Dice (at the referee’s discretion). 
 
CYBERSPACE CONSOLES 
Roll 2d6 
 
02. Orchard Technologies® nPod 

Street legal, susceptible to spam, built-in safety filter protects 
user from neurological attack but won’t launch illicit software 

 
03. Genexus® Gestalt Bio-modem 

Vat-grown implant, enhanced haptic feedback, Savvy Jack 
required to run software, immune to viral software exploits 

 

51 //New software should be created to automate and aid specific, narrow tasks.



cyberspace consoles
04. Ono-Sendai® Shinobi-7 

Mil-spec combat deck with an armoured casing and heavy duty 
‘trode set; very durable 

 
05. Braun® Hyperion 

Wafer-thin brushed aluminium case, fast processor, one extra 
net action per round, with no Glitch dice penalty for more than 
one action 

 
06. Hideyoki® Vision 512e 

512 exabyte capacity, the highest memory capacity on the market 
 
07. Toshiba® Nimbus 

Modem and keyboard interface, user safe from anti-personnel 
software, preferred console of the old-school ‘key cutter’ 
subculture 

 
08. Sony-Diahatsu® Yūrei 

Factory-installed Cognition 1 AI/expert system, which can 
perform simple tasks independently when instructed by the user, 
but prone to literal interpretation of those commands 

 
09. Komatsu Systems® Ubi-C 

Hands-free wearable console, available as either a ‘sleeve’ 
or ‘skull-cap’ 

 
10. Thompson® Eye-phones 

Opaque visor unit with inset ‘trodes, combined with peripheral 
pair of VR responsive data-gloves 

 
11. Ishiteki® Kyōka suru 

Small console with slaved transparent polymer visor, heads-up 
display with augmented reality overlay, permits visual awareness 
of users’ current surroundings while interfaced 

 
12. Numan-Lloyd® N-24A 

Unremarkable console unit available in a variety of plastic 
finishes, but comes supplied with a low impedance plastic ‘tiara’ 
headband rather than a ‘trode set, granting a +1 hacking bonus 

//Most consoles are pretty compact, but powerful desktops exist, too. 52



hackable targets

example system difficulty scores 
 
  Easy:                      8      Unsecured                         Basic System 
  Moderate:           10      Secured                             Online Store  
  Challenging:       12      Hardened                          Police Database 
 Hard:                   14      Encrypted*                              
 Government Registry 
  Formidable:       16      Encrypted + ICE†              Banking System 
  Extreme:             18      + System Operator(s)      Zaibatsu Mainframe 
 Impossible:       20      + AI Custodian(s)             Zaibatsu Black Site 
 
*requiring encryption keys to access, or time-consuming decryption 
 by a nodejacker or by expert decryption software 
†Intrusion Countermeasure Electronics (hostile software, with ‘Black 
ICE’ being deadly, hostile software) 

  
  DS8    Gang’s Homemade Scrap-Drone (Unsecured) 

  DS10  Security Patrol Drone (Secured) 

  DS12  Police Surveillance Drone (Hardened) 

  DS14  Military Weapon Drone or SWAT Drone (Encrypted) 

  DS10  Cleaning Bot or Robopet (Secured) 

  DS16  Autonomous Weapon System, cybrid or ATID (+ICE) 
  DS10  Robocab (Secured) / DS14  Robo-Stratocab (Encrypted) 

  DS12  Auto-loader or Construction Drone (Hardened) 

  DS14 to DS18 Cyberspace Console (Encrypted to +System operator)  

  DS10  Security Camera or a Basic Cell Phone (Secured) 

  DS12  Environmental Sensor System (Hardened) 
  DS8    Public Elevator (Unsecured) / DS14  Private Elevator (Encrypted) 

  DS20  AI-driven Sky-Limo (+AI Custodian) 
 DS14  Personal Augmentation Network aka PAN (Encrypted) 

53 //Don’t forget to describe how it looks and feels inside a given system.



exploits

exploits 
Exploits are specific command actions a nodejacker can use to 
manipulate files or systems. Each has their own Difficulty Score, 
and GMs are free to modify these, dependent on in-game events. 
 
  Coding - programming or scripting to change files                   DS12 

  Find - locate files/databases on a system, unless hidden       DS10 

  Spoof - confuse or mislead a system, in a specific way           DS14 
 Query - request information about a system or database       DS12 
  
  Control - take over a part of the system, or a linked asset       DS16 

  Encrypt - lock part of the system from other users                   DS18 

  Decrypt - break existing encryption                                             DS14+  

  Conceal - hide files, software or backdoors                                DS14 

  Trace - locate other users in real-space, unless hidden           DS14 

  Run - launch software and other applications                           DS8 
 Scan - reveal cyberspace-linked devices and augments         DS12 
  
system responses 
When a system detects an intrusion attempt, these are some of the 
most common response protocols a nodejacker might encounter. 
 
  Trace Protocol - software tries to locate the intruder in real-space 

  Malware - virus injected to console, fragmenting software and files 

  Synaptic Overload - physical reflexes slowed to a painful crawl 
  Biofeedback - the five sensory inputs are spoofed, or scrambled 
 Neuromuscular Incapacitation - go rigid, endure seizures, 
 spasms or just go limp, with strong possibility of cardiac arrest 

  Bioelectric Surge - tasered by your own bioelectric impulses 
  Psychological Fracture - an induced psychedelic nightmare 
 Neurochemical Stim - emotional, sleepy, brain-fog, confusion

//Responses are triggered by failed Hacking and Exploit rolls, doing damage. 54



software and drugs
ILLICIT SOFTWARE EXAMPLES 
R oll 2d6 

 02. NeuroShield (protects hacker from neural damage effects) 
0 3. ReBoot (kickstarts the hacker’s vitals if they’ve flatlined) 

 04. tunnel_rat (helps penetrate a secure system) 

 05. God Mode (helps control an infiltrated system) 

 06. Hunter (helps locate specific files) 

 07. Khali Grade 9 (destroys a system over d6 rounds; single use) 

 08. Cloak (helps mask your movements in a system) 
0 9. Spoofer (sends false intrusion signals through the target system) 
1 0. Quiver (stuns enemy hackers for d6 rounds) 
1 1. Mr Sparky 2.0 (uses the target hardware to cause electrical fires) 
12. Peripheral (assists hacks against remotes, drones and 

cybernetic augmentations) 
 
 
narcotics 
What’s a cyberpunk game without drugs? Safer. 
 
Potential drug addiction can be handled with an Action Roll, adding 
Equilibrium, versus the DS for the narcotic’s strength and potency, 
to determine if a character gets hooked. If they fail the roll, they’ll 
be craving more within 24 hours. Uh oh. 
 
R oll 2d6 
02. Hyperdex - Amphetamine-like effect; pale blue pill; Morphology 
 rolls with Upgrade for 1d6 hours (DS12) 
03. Fauxcaine - Synthetic cocaine; chalky off-white powder, snorted;  
 +1 Equilibrium and +1 Reaction for 1d6 hours (DS14) 
04. Stim - Alertness-inducing clear liquid; eye-dropper; +2 Reaction 
 for 1d6+1 hours (DS10) 

55 //New software and narcotic types should offer hyper-specific bonuses.



drugs and withdrawal
05. Slaught - Combat drug; brick-dust-pink powder; cooked, then 
 injected; +1 Morphology and +3 Resilience for 1 hour (DS18) 
06. Syndorphine - Euphoric, pain negation; transparent amber 
 capsules; +2 Affinity, +2 Equilibrium for 1d6/2 hours (DS12) 
07. Iniquity - Aphrodisiac, euphoric, relaxant; wafer-thin black tab; 
 +3 Affinity for 2d6 hours (DS14) 
08. Xeno - Hallucinogen, enhanced physical performance; grey jelly; 
 +2 Morphology for 1d6+3 hours but roll with Glitch dice 
09. Tetrameth - Enhanced healing, sedative; pink delta-shaped pill;  

+1 Resilience per hour, -1 Morphology, -2 Reaction, +1 Equilibrium 
 for 1d6 hours (DS8) 
10. Red Rapture - Euphoric combat drug; red capsule; +3 Morphology, 
 +3 Resilience for 2d6 minutes (DS20) 
11. Meta - Boosted perceptions, heightened awareness, nootropic; 

violet powder, smoked; +2 Cognition, +3 Equilibrium for 1d6 
 minutes (DS16) 
12. HD - Enhanced cognition and focus; yellow pill; +4 Cognition and 

+2 Equilibrium for 3d6 minutes (DS18) 
 

       WITHDRAWAL 
geist note:                   Roll 2d6 
While the symptoms and 

        02. Apathy and depression 
effects of withdrawl have 
been included for that         03. Irrational rage and irritability 
gritty genre feel, be aware 

        04. Confusion and disassociation 
that your players may not 

        05. Hallucinations and flash-backs 
respond favourably to the 
gamification of issues         06. Cold sweats, diarrhoea, dehydration 
such as mental health, 

        07. Tremors and severe light sensitivity 
debilitating illness, drug 
use and addiction, and         08. Bleeding gums, nose bleeds 
may find these subjects         09. Headaches and vomiting 
difficult to deal with. 
         10. Seizure (DS14 Morphology roll) 
If in doubt, leave it out. 

        11. Panic and paranoia 
Be kind. Keep it fun.

       12. Heart attack (DS18 Morphology roll) 

//Comedowns are bad; Glitch on all actions for 2d6 hours after drug use. 56



street market

a fist-full of bityuan 
The toys in this list are found throughout this book and are priced 
in bityuan, but could just as easily be valued in dollars, nuyen, bits, 
eurobucks, credits, or c-bills. Pick your flavour. 
 
GENERAL ITEMS 
Cheap Sanyo® Cell Phone                                                  25 b¥ 
Ono-Sendai® Cyberspace Console and ‘trodes             675 b¥ 
Toolkit                                                                                     150 b¥ 
IR Goggles                                                                             200 b¥ 
Stolen Credit Card (blackmarket)                                      150 b¥ 
Bottle of Moskovskaya® Vodka                                         30 b¥ 
3 Doses of Brazilian Hyperdex                                           45 b¥ 
Capsule Hotel (24 hours)                                                    30 b¥ 
Yeheyuan® cigarettes (20)                                                  10 b¥ 
Fake ID (blackmarket)                                                          500 b¥ 
Handcuffs                                                                              20 b¥ 
Mirrorshades                                                                        15 b¥ 
Palm-sized A/V drone                                                         250 b¥ 
Lazarus Patches (blister pack of 6 patches)                  30 b¥ 
Gold plastic chopsticks                                                      5 b¥ 
6 DeStress Xpress® capsules                                            2 b¥ 
Chunky wireless headphones                                            25 b¥ 
ÖOBA® strato-cab account (per month)                          150 b¥ 
Filter mask                                                                            20 b¥ 
Clear vinyl raincoat from a vending machine                 5 b¥ 
Tablet computer                                                                   250 b¥ 

57 //These costs are guidelines and can be marked up or down by sellers.



street market
Foil sachet of self-heating instant ramen                       3 b¥ 
Religious pendant                                                                15 b¥ + 
Tub of sanitizing wipes                                                       20 b¥ 
Vape pen                                                                                12 b¥ 
Aerosol of foam soap                                                          4 b¥ 
Laser pointer                                                                         10 b¥ 
Tube of resin adhesive                                                        8 b¥ 
Pen light                                                                                 12 b¥ 
Engraved Zippo lighter                                                        10 b¥ 
Self-adhesive motion sensor                                             80 b¥ 
Professional Medical Services (per hour)                       250 b¥ 
First-aid kit                                                                            60 b¥ 
Exo-womb                                                                             500,000 b¥ 
Hayabusa® H-520 semi-autonomous loader                 80,000 b¥ 
Quality Assurance drone                                                    9,000 b¥ 
Mitsubishi® snakebot                                                         5,000 b¥ 
Strato-cabbie’s hopper                                                       10,000 b¥ 
Memory Backup service (per month)                               5,500 b¥ 
Fresh, healthy clone                                                             300,000 b¥ 
Cybrid (new bioplastic synthetic)                                     10,000 b¥ 
RFID shard (implanted)                                                       500 b¥ 
Sentry® M-94 Tanksuit                                                       1,000,000 b¥ 
Mnemonic Envoy Service (per data set)                          2,000 b¥ 
Cherry Blossom Orbital® Nano-fabricator                       250,000 b¥ 
Carbon nanobar                                                                   1,000 b¥ 
Glucose bar                                                                            5 b¥ 

//Black market/counterfeit items might be cheaper, but harder to come by. 58



street market
Calcium block                                                                       350 b¥ 
Limo                                                                                       80,000 b¥ 
Biofeedback console and ‘trodes                                      1,500 b¥ 
VR-training session (24 hours)                                         500 b¥ 
Cherry Blossom Orbital® unlocked, low-grade AI          5,000 b¥ 
Counterfeit personality chip                                               600 b¥ 
Cloned Cortical Archive (blackmarket)                             25,000 b¥ 
DRM-cracked cybrid (blackmarket)                                 6,500 b¥ 
Net-shrine account (per month)                                       200 b¥ 
Emitter array/processors/drives/interface rig               16,000 b¥ 
Neoprene hexayurt                                                              150 b¥ 
Neural cut-out (implant)                                                     500 b¥ 
Average augmentation installation fee                            1,000 b¥ 
 
AUGMENTATIONS 
Sentry® Military Grade Neurochem                                  2,000 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Muscle Matrix                            4,500 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® Combat Neurolink                               1,000 b¥ 
Dornier Orbital® Neural Lattice                                          1,250 b¥ 
Sentry® Amped Hearing                                                      500 b¥ 
Genexus® NeoDerm                                                             1,500 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Slicers                                         500 b¥ 
Komatsu® Full-spectrum Optics                                       1,000 b¥ 
Cradle Biolabs® Filter Lungs                                              650 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® Savvy Jack                                           500 b¥ 
Cybernetic Limb (generic arm/leg)                                   800/1,200 b¥ 

59 //Better, more advanced items might be available at much higher cost.



street market
Ishiteki Augmentation® Myomar Tendons                      750 b¥ 
Komatsu Systems® Vigilance Suite                                 500 b¥ 
Sentry® Exo-plating                                                             2,500 b¥ 
Pop-up Weapon                            Price as weapon plus 500 b¥ 
Hayabusa Heavy Industries® Linear Frame                    3,500 b¥ 
Dornier Orbital® Vehicle Interface                                     250 b¥ 
Genexus® Bio-auditor                                                         200 b¥ 
Genexus® Pain Blocker                                                       500 b¥ 
Kanawa-Mendez® Spider Optics                                      1,000 b¥ 
Genexus® Softdrive                                                             5,000 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® Cortical Archive                                   600,000 b¥ 
Komatsu Systems® Striking Cobra                                   1,250 b¥ 
Cradle Biolabs® Infernoweave                                           2,000 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® EMP Shielding                                     5,000 b¥ 
Komatsu Systems® Skull Gun                                           2,500 b¥ 
Cradle Biolabs® Dispensary                                               600 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Nanodocs                                   3,500 b¥ 
Sentry® Tac-net Comm                                                      450 b¥ 
Kanawa-Mendez® Hermes-class Cyberlegs                  2,000 b¥ 
Kanawa-Mendez® Spinal Reinforcement                        1,250 b¥ 
Cradle Biolabs® Kickstarter                                               3,000 b¥ 
Dornier Orbital® Mood Modulator                                     450 b¥ 
Genexus® Neuro-bridge                                                      350 b¥ 
Takematsu-Hegenaur® Augmented Reality Module     200 b¥ 
Cradle Biolabs® Toxin Scrubbers                                      350 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® REM-inducer                                        200 b¥ 

//Augment prices can fluctuate wildly, depending where you buy them from. 60



street market
Komatsu Systems® Wampyrs                                           350 b¥ 
Hideyoki® Monowhip Digit                                                 300 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Jacked Reflexes                        1,000 b¥ 
Kanawa-Mendez® Cybershell                                            150,000 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® Mind-Drive                                           2,000 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Scratchers                                  400 b¥ 
Dornier Orbital® Voice Modulator                                     200 b¥ 
Ishiteki Augmentation® Mirrorshades                             500 b¥ 
Orchard Technologies® Machine Link                              120 b¥ 
Clavel Industries® Surveillance Array                               500 b¥ 
 
SHARDWARE (for use with the Clavel Industries® Savvy Jack) 
Kung Fu Shard                                                                      300 b¥ 
Nice Guy Eddie Shard                                                          250 b¥ 
Photo Memory Shard                                                          250 b¥ 
Shiver Shard                                                                          500 b¥ 
Tanksuit Shard                                                                     150 b¥ 
Language Shard                                                                   200 b¥ 
Style & Etiquette Shard                                                       150 b¥ 
Felony Register Shard                                                         250 b¥ 
Vehicle Zen Shard                                                                200 b¥ 
Tech Spec Shard                                                                  300 b¥ 
EMT Shard                                                                             350 b¥ 
 
 
 

61 //Some augments might be illegal and prohibited in certain jurisdictions.



street market
FIREARMS 
Haldane & Kluvis® HAK G55 10mm SMG                        1,500 b¥ 
Charon® PKD-45 Police Special Revolver                       500 b¥ 
Hideyoki® Shard Gun Flechette Pistol                              800 b¥ 
Echo International® KR-16 5.56 Assault Rifle                2,000 b¥ 
Sony-Diahatsu® Type-6 PLP Pulse Laser Pistol            5,000 b¥ 
Haunt® M10 Anti-material Sniper Rifle System             7,500 b¥ 
Kalashnikov® AK-91R 7.62 Assault Rifle                         1,200 b¥ 
Echo International® Nemesis 10mm Semiautomatic    500 b¥ 
Armcor® Diamondback 10mm Machinepistol                750 b¥ 
Sentry® P226 9mm Semiautomatic                                 450 b¥ 
KRYSS® Venom 11mm Modular SMG                              900 b¥ 
 
AMMO OPTIONS (box of 50) 
Standard Type (no bonus)                                                  50 b¥ 
Hellfires                                                                                  100 b¥ 
Shredders                                                                              150 b¥ 
LN2s                                                                                       500 b¥ 
Splinters                                                                                200 b¥ 
High Explosive                                                                      300 b¥ 
Moisture-responsive HE                                                     450 b¥ 
Depleted Uranium                                                                800 b¥ 
Jelly Rounds                                                                         300 b¥ 
Gas                                                                                         375 b¥ 
Acid                                                                                        250 b¥ 
Hollowpoint                                                                           80 b¥ 

//Most of these ammo options are considered illegal, wherever you are. 62



street market
WEAPON MODIFICATIONS 
Targeting scope                                                                   250 b¥ 
Custom grips                                                                        150 b¥ 
Gyro-stabilisation                                                                400 b¥ 
Bio-lock                                                                                 350 b¥ 
IFF chipping                                                                          500 b¥ 
Teleoperation link                                                                800 b¥ 
Folding bipod                                                                        100 b¥ 
Silencer/suppressor                                                            85 b¥ 
Electronic trigger                                                                  120 b¥ 
Extended magazine/drum mag                                         65 b¥ 
Smart targeting                                                                    750 b¥ 
 
HEAVY WEAPONS 
Sentry® M-88 RPG                                                               4,000 b¥ 
Haunt® LAW Light Anti-Tank Weapon                              2,500 b¥ 
Echo International® KS-49 5.56 SAW                               2,250 b¥ 
Armcor® Accelerator-AP 18mm Railgun                         6,500 b¥ 
Sentry® Shredder Portable Minigun                                 2,000 b¥ 
Hideyoki® L5 Heavy Chemical Laser Weapon                 3,750 b¥ 
HAK® G40 Rhino 40mm Grenade Launcher                    1,200 b¥ 
Echo International® K-60A .50cal Machinegun              1,350 b¥ 
Barrett® AT3 .50cal Anti-Tank/-Borg Rifle                      4,500 b¥ 
Haunt® EMP-1 Electro Magnetic Pulse Rifle                   2,750 b¥ 
QBZ® Leong Incinerator Unit                                             950 b¥ 
 

63 //Not all heavy weapons can be sourced quickly by street-dealers.



street market
MELEE WEAPONS 
Hideyoki® Monomolecular Knife                                       55 b¥ 
Carbon Steel Katana                                                            200 b¥ 
Graphene Nunchaku/Tonfa                                                40 b¥ 
Sentry® Electro-Knux™ Knuckleduster                             65 b¥ 
Polymer Shuriken                                                                 15 b¥ 
Ceramic Switchblade                                                          10 b¥ 
Mono-dao (monomolecular sword)                                 350 b¥ 
Sledgehammer                                                                     10 b¥ 
Steel Telescoping Baton                                                     45 b¥ 
Chain                                                                                      5 b¥ 
Club                                                                                        2 b¥ /  FREE 
 
BODY ARMOUR 
Motorcycle Leathers                                                            80 b¥ 
Arachnoweave Sleeve                                                          250 b¥ 
Carbon Fibre Flak Vest                                                        150 b¥ 
Laser-ablative Fabric                                                          300 b¥ 
Impact Gel Inserts                                                               95 b¥ 
Ceramic Plate                                                                       120 b¥ 
Heavy Kevlar Jacket                                                            200 b¥ 
Exo-frame                                                                              3,000 b¥ 
Coil Suit                                                                                 1,750 b¥ 
Flame Retardant Sleeve                                                      220 b¥ 
Heavy Leather Overcoat                                                     110 b¥ 
 

//Obvious mil-spec armour will definitely get a PC stopped and searched. 64



street market
NARCOTICS (estimated street value per dose) 
Hyperdex                                                                               20 b¥ 
Fauxcaine                                                                              30 b¥ 
Stim                                                                                        15 b¥ 
Slaught                                                                                   45 b¥ 
Syndorphine                                                                          50 b¥ 
Iniquity                                                                                   25 b¥ 
Xeno                                                                                       30 b¥ 
Tetrameth                                                                              40 b¥ 
Red Rapture                                                                          25 b¥ 
Meta                                                                                       30 b¥ 
HD                                                                                           20 b¥ 
 
ILLICIT SOFTWARE (blackmarket prices) 
NeuroShield                                                                          100 b¥ 
ReBoot                                                                                   300 b¥ 
tunnel_rat                                                                              550 b¥ 
God Mode                                                                              800 b¥ 
Hunter                                                                                    250 b¥ 
Khali Grade 9                                                                        5,500 b¥ 
Cloak                                                                                      450 b¥ 
Spoof                                                                                      200 b¥ 
Quiver                                                                                     150 b¥ 
Mr Sparky 2.0                                                                       300 b¥ 
Peripheral                                                                              220 b¥ 
 

65 //Drug and software prices fluctuate daily, but are suprisingly common items.



street market
CYBERSPACE CONSOLES 
Orchard Technologies® nPod                                            475 b¥ 
Genexus® Gestalt Bio-modem                                          3,900 b¥ 
Ono-Sendai® Shinobi-7                                                      1,800 b¥ 
Braun® Hyperion                                                                  3,700 b¥ 
Hideyoki® Vision 512e                                                         4,000 b¥ 
Toshiba® Nimbus                                                                 2,600 b¥ 
Sony-Diahatsu® Yūrei                                                         5,250 b¥ 
Komatsu Systems® Ubi-C                                                  3,200 b¥ 
Thompson® Eye-phones                                                    990 b¥ 
Ishiteki® Kyōka suru                                                            1,100 b¥ 
Numan-Lloyd® N-24A                                                         800 b¥ 
 
PERSONAL DRONES 
Situational Awareness                                                        300 b¥ 
Targeting                                                                               325 b¥ 
Buddy Bot®                                                                            250 b¥ 
Holo Emitter                                                                          220 b¥ 
Surveillance                                                                          300 b¥ 
Defence                                                                                  550 b¥ 
Medi-drone                                                                           425 b¥ 
Bomb (blackmarket)                                                            850 b¥ 
Assassin (blackmarket)                                                      1,200 b¥ 
Tracker                                                                                   320 b¥ 
Ortillery Spotter (blackmarket)                                          5,575 b¥ 
 

//Possessing a console or drone can give the wrong impression to the law. 66



street market
VEHICLES 
BMW® R21 Motorcycle                                                        10,000 b¥ 
Serafim® Ataman Off-road Motorcycle                            6,000 b¥ 
Hayabusa® Shinden Motorcycle                                       12,500 b¥ 
Hero® C12 Scooter                                                               2,500 b¥ 
Mitsubishi® Amatsubame Citycar                                    8,000 b¥ 
Škoda® Rider Compact Car                                                 12,250 b¥ 
Hawker-Aichi® Baribal Minivan                                         15,500 b¥ 
HWL® Mandarin Type 31 Jeep                                           8,750 b¥ 
Eichner & Voss® Serie 200 Speedboat                             11,500 b¥ 
BMW® T9-Series Limousine                                              35,000 b¥ 
BMW® T9-Protection Armoured Limousine                    49,999 b¥ 
Zuni® Mercury Multipurpose Van                                      18,000 b¥ 
Volvo® G-Series Heavy Truck                                            100,000 b¥ 
Hawker-Aichi® Greyhound Long-Range Bus                  80,000 b¥ 
Hawker-Aichi® Dachshund City Bus                                135,750 b¥ 
Armcor® Grizzly Infantry Fighting Vehicle                       575,000 b¥ 
Rheinmetall® Löwe Main Battle Tank                               1,500,000 b¥ 
Eichner & Voss® Schweinswale Cargo Sub                     95,000,000 b¥ 
Bharatiya Vayu Sena Industries® Hamsa Luxury Train   120,000,000 b¥ 
Zuni® Bumblebee Mini-copter                                           820,000 b¥ 
Sikorsky® S-311 Utility Cybercopter                                5,000,000 b¥ 
Kamov® K-98 Strekoza Attack Helicopter                       12,000,000 b¥ 
Draco® D91 Wyvern Cargo Tilt-rotor                                7,500,000 b¥ 
Jerboa® Electric Cometa Blimp                                         8,000,000 b¥ 
Kenbichi Heavy Industries® Jizo Rescue Tanksuit         850,000 b¥ 
Vanda-Sheridan® Lexington Military Tanksuit                990,000 b¥ 

67 //More info on all the vehicles above can be found in Metal Express.



antagonists
COMMON NPC ENEMIES 
Sprawl Cop - Flak Vest, Helmet w IR Visor, PKD-45, Baton         DS10 
Gang Member Mohawk, d3 Augments, d3 Weapons, d3 Drugs   DS10 
Gang Boss - Big Mohawk, d6 Augments, d6 Weapons                 DS14 
Corporate Security - Flak Vest, Bio-locked Shardgun & SMG     DS12 
Corporate Agent - d3 Augments, Arachnoweave Suit, SMG        DS14 
Company Executive - Designer Clothes, Pistol, d6 Agents          DS10 
Killmorph - Shardgun, Morphwear, d6 Augments, Monoknife     DS16 
Zone Veteran - Armoured overcoat, Assault Rifle, d3 Grenades    DS16 
Nodejacker - Console, Electro-knux, Pistol, Kevlar Jacket          DS12 
Rogue Cybrid - Tatty Coverall, Stolen PKD-45, Precious Photos   DS8 
Combat Cybrid - Leather Overcoat, 2x SMGs, Slicers, Shades   DS14 
T-66 ATID - d6 Sensor Augments, KR-16, Inbuilt Exoframe        DS18 
Syndicate Goon - Cheap Suit, Assault Rifle, Fancy Pistol            DS12 
Syndicate Boss - Expensive Suit, Jewellery, Custom Pistol        DS16 
Security Drone - IFF, EMP Weapon, RFID Shard, Ceramic Shell    DS10 
Combat Drone - d3 Weapons, Ceramic Shell, Smart Targetting    DS16 
Cybershell Mercenary - Kevlar Jacket, Mono-dao, SMG              DS18 
Corporate Tanksuit - d6 Weapons, Smart Targetting, Bio-lock    DS20 
Augmented Guard Dog - Full-spectrum Optics, Wampyrs           DS12 
Bodyguard - d6 Augments, Shardgun/SMG, Awareness Drone    DS14 
Psychotic Cyborg - d6+2 Augments, d3 Melee Weapons            DS20 
Insurgent - AK-91R, Burner Phones, Crude DS16 IED, Manifesto  DS14 
Spiderform Cybershell - 6-8 Limbs, d6 Weapons, d6 Augments   DS18 
Combat Artiste - Savvy Jack, Kung Fu Shard, Nunchaku            DS12 
Vatgrown Ninja - Carbon Katana, Black Clothes, Cold Stare       DS18 
Ronin - Leathers, Ishiteki Mirrors, Scratchers, Shardgun            DS16

//Adjust loadouts and the NPC’s DS (up or down), to suit your needs. 68



69



appendix 1 : 
the flow

70






THE FLOW



the flow

WHAT IS THE FLOW? 
The Flow is people, finance, goods, data, all channeling through the 
filthy arteries of the metroplex, 24 hours a day. 
 
It is also what the locals call their corner of this decaying sprawl 
of stratoscrapers, assembleries, habstacks, arcologies, multi-malls, 
company hubs, geodesics and hive-slums; a metropolitan axis that 
stretches all the way from Boston to Atlanta. Nobody on the street 
can remember what this place used to be called anymore. 
 
 
 THE DISTRICTS 
Halogen Heights: A broken-down area of habitation blocks, low-rent 
housing and warehouses, perpetually lit by floodlights, the eastern 
e xtremes a warren of filthy, flooded streets. 
Dome Town: Huge residential zone, dominated by five dilapidated 
geodesic Fuller domes, each one blackened inside by decades of 
 trapped pollutants and cooking fires. 
Apex Nuevo: Rows of corporate towers loom over this reclaimed 
extension of the coastline, each zone policed by company security 
a nd populated by management-level families and their hangers-on. 
Kudzu Island: Man-made island, built from accumulated trash and 
waste, the grungey domain of misfits and scoundrels who value their 
distance from the mainland, and also the haunt of pirates, smugglers, 
 traffickers and worse. 
Neoshima: Home to the Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority’s reactor, 
corporate assembly plants, factories and R&D facilities, interspersed 
w ith poorly-built housing units for the workers employed there. 
Filter Valley: Smart-condos and apartment spires favoured by the 
syndicates, low-level corporates, nodejackers and tech entrepreneurs, 
co-exist with cutting-edge shardstores, augmentation clinics, VRcades, 
h i-tech showrooms and boutiques. 
Gohoru: Business towers, apartment blocks, hotels, restaurants 
and puppet lounges, the streets are always clean and very secure, 
but buzz with the upper-class vice beloved of company execs, 
oligarchs, jurōjin, and other wealthy power-players. 

73 //City districts are always in flux; gentrify them, condemn them, burn them.



the flow
Nightside: A district trapped in the shadows cast by the lights of 
Halogen Heights on the geodesics and habstacks of Dome Town, 
a lways lit by vivid neon and bright holography out of necessity. 
Hub City: The Flow’s own Downtown of sorts, a slightly more affluent 
area of apartments, entertainment, shopping concourses and neon, 
ringed by a complex multi-lane highway, known locally as the Hoop. 
 
Bayside Park: Large park and garden made up primarily of genetically 
modified plants, synthetic adaptations and holo-projected ‘fauxliage’, 
encased in a near-invisible aerogel geodesic to protect the park form 
t he salt-tinged air, pollution and acid rain. 
Ringway: The sprawling maze of highrises that lies beyond the 
Hoop. If you want cheap or blackmarket goods, head to Ringway’s 
m yriad knock-off stores and street markets. 
Fluxton: Bleak, incomplete suburban developments as far as the 
eye can see, cheap housing lines streets with only partial occupancy, 
where developers with grand ideas try out their costly urban planning 
e xperiments before going broke (and the squatters move in). 
Mirror City: Huge hemispherical arcology, a city within a city, this 
enclosed luxury residential fortress is home to the privileged wealthy 
a nd encased in solar panels, reflected lights visible for miles around. 
Harbor Keys: Expensive real-estate reclaimed from the old docklands, 
now dominated by the gleaming spires of the Harbor Keys Business 
P ark and numerous luxury apartment towers. 
The Projects: Miles of featureless concrete plots, home to colossal 
carbon-copy apartment blocks, once touted as the future of urban 
d evelopment (until the money ran out, that is). 
East Largo: Rows of tenements and suburban housing that gets 
progressively worse as you head both east and west, the struggling 
r esidents left with a strong siege-mentality and mistrust of outsiders. 
Lethal League Stadium: The Flow’s only stadium, home to the ever 
popular Lethal League sporting events, swathed in ad boards and 
s ponsorship holos and surrounded by a vast tiered parking lot. 
Southside Nogo: A wild region so fractured and ruined as to be all 
but indistinguishable from an active warzone, where the rule of law 
is non-existent and where the corporations dump their liabilities. 

//Reinforce a district’s uniqueness to your players, as it’ll help them vibe. 74



the flow
Stackville: The largest concentration of the tallest highrise habstacks 
in the Flow, the mostly unemployed population living in cramped and 
a ppalling conditions, as the stacks rust and crumble around them.  
Containment Zone 9: Walled off, but easily breached, this area is 
the site of a calamitous chemical disaster, awash with pollutants, 
toxins, biohazards and the chemical-eating nanites deployed to deal 
with them, the remaining inhabitants under siege from the nanites’ 
c hoking byproduct; a corrosive, stinking froth. 
Binary Beach: Slowly being gentrified, these brick tenements and 
warehouses are quietly being taken over by tech start-ups and new 
clinics, or being snapped up and converted into highly desirable loft 
apartments, but the original, poorer residents still hang on to the 
oldest parts of the district, renowned for its vibrant techspressionist 
art and music scene. 
 
 
MAP LOCATIONS 
[ Grid reference in parentheses] 
01. Apex Nuevo Corporate Zone The most affluent and secure 

commercial district in the Flow, hosting the towering corporate 
offices of Genexus, Kanawa-Mendez, Sentry Military Technologies, 
Takematsu-Hegenaur, Clavel Industries as well as the ostensible 
Orbital Embassies representing Dornier, Cherry Blossom and the 

 Swiss Orbital Bank. [H3] 
02. Harbor Keys Business Park With a smaller footprint than 

Apex Nuevo and packed with more stratoscrapers, Harbor Keys 
centres around the regional offices of Cradle Biolabs, Ishiteki 
Augmentation, Komatsu Systems, Hayabusa Heavy Industries, 
Orchard Technologies, Datura Pharmaceuticals and online retail 

 behemoth, Ameron. [M5] 
03. Periphery Plaza Commercial hub for corporations such as 

Hideyoki, Braun, Haldane & Kluvis (HAK), Numan-Lloyd and 
Ono-Sendai, but also the Bio-Security Administration’s Genetic 
Registry, ride-share giant Öoba, the bio-ethical NGO, Genepeace, 
along with a plethora of business towers packed with start-ups 
and SMEs. A loop of large scale corporate construction projects, 
in various states of completion, surrounds the central zone. [F5] 

75 //There’s room on the map for your own locations, so add what you need.



the flow
04. Network City The heart of the Flow’s media industry, this 

district is dominated by broadcast media studios (such as 
Network 7, Broadcast 1, Channel 99), social media companies 
(Tru.U, Skreemr, YipYap), simulcasting networks and myriad 
VR and fluid reality coding houses. Rival media giants, like 
Datafax, Orchard Media, EMV Entertainment and Luminous 

 Media Inc., all have their offices in Network City. [H6] 
05. Mercy Mile Mediplex The largest subscription-model hospital 

complex and ER in the Flow, infamous for its over-reliance on 
 corporate diagnostic AI and its ties to big pharma. [J6] 
06. Sense/Net Large black pyramid housing the branch offices 

and servers of the global cyberspace regulator. They mostly 
cooperate with the FPD’s Transmission Felonies department, 
but, being arrogant glory-hounds, prefer to keep operations 
in-house, prioritising their own agents, leads and case-files, 

 which causes a certain amount of inter-agency friction. [H2] 
07. Central Processing Main judicial HQ, the courts, the DA’s offices 

and holding cubes, as well as the Flow Police Department’s 
main precinct. Transmission Felonies are also based here, 
as are Organic Damage and ESWAT. Smaller undermanned and 

 underfunded FPD precincts are dotted around the districts. [F7] 
08. Corrective Responsibility Ominous grey tower with thousands 

of tiny meshed windows, the site of a corporate-funded factory 
penitentiary, where convicted felons are put to work as part of 
their supposed rehabilitation, and where it’s way too easy to have 
your sentence extended. Subsurface levels exist, where the worst 
offenders are placed into VR-assisted cryosleep for the duration 
of their incarceration, at the taxpayers expense. The Board has 
recently initiated the Export Program, where select bio-tagged 
inmates are contracted out as pay-as-you-go mercenaries, no 

 questions asked. [E3] 
09. The Registry Imposing concrete monolith, home to what passes 

for the local government (known as The Admin) and their secure 
 data silos. A monument to bureaucracy and red tape. [J7] 
10. Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority These are the folks who keep 

the lights on, the Sprawl humming and the ageing ESFA reactor 
from going critical. Shockingly underfunded. [G4] 

//Don’t hesitate to alter any of these locations to suit  your own campaign. 76



the flow
11. Core Transit Grand and spacious, the largest transit station 

in the Flow, connecting the bullet train, monorail and subway 
networks. The wider area is ground zero in the so-called 
Stratocab Wars, where Aeroshare, Tsunami Taxis and Öoba 

 violently compete for prime pick-up spots and customers. [F5] 
12. Genexus Desalination Plant Originally built and operated by 

Hayabusa, but now run by Genexus, after they procured the 
contract from Admin via lobbying, bribes and threats. Knowing 
clean water is a money spinner, Hayabusa want it back in their 
portfolio and will also use lobbying, bribes and threats to achieve 

 that goal. [J2] 
13. Clavel Industries Cybrid Fabricators The largest and most 

secure cybrid manufacturing facility in the Sprawl, surrounded 
 by reinforced walls, gates and defence systems. [L6] 
14. Port Authority District Numerous industrial areas, overseen 

by the Port Authority, with docking facilities, warehousing and 
logistics hubs. Large numbers of teamsters and robotniks work 
the docks, with regular clashes between unionised crews and 
independent contractors, tensions stoked by several competing 

 syndicates. [M7] 
15. Cradle Biolabs Agristacks Huge glass towers supported by 

carbon nanotube frames, each floor a microclimate dedicated 
to a different food crop, tended by drones and robotic systems. 

 Very secure and an extremely high-value asset. [I1] 
16. Paradigm Towers A dense cluster of thin, cylindrical, cheapcrete 

tower blocks, also known as The Forest. Originally intended 
as social housing, some have been repurposed by Genexus as 
vertical farmstacks, accommodating rows of vat-grown livestock 
or insect protein farms. Some of the habitation cylinders have 
been adapted by their occupants with jury-rigged resin and 
polymer hydroponics blisters on their exteriors, for growing 

 plants and vegetables (and weed). [F10] 
17. Vertical Distribution Node Looking like windowless towerblocks, 

these vertical warehouses are daubed in company colours and 
logos, where distribution and logistics drones come and go, 24/7. 
Huge internal freight elevators service the multiple floors and the 
tiers of racking. Human- or AI-driven vans, trucks and hoppers 

77 //You decide whether these entries tell the whole truth about a place.



the flow
show up day and night, too. Usually serviced by a small logistics 
staff with security and a tech team, along with a managing expert 

 system or AI. Just one of many scattered across the Flow. [E7] 
18. SprawlMart The biggest of the big box stores, you could get lost 

in one of these retail labyrinths for days. Currently engaged in 
open hostilities with the other big box giant, Consumertopia, for 

 reasons management can no longer remember. [H7] 
19. Consumertopia The second largest retail behemoth, they pride 

themselves on both exceptional customer service and not being 
SprawlMart. Aggressive pricing, heavily armed security and 
pre-emptive strikes against their rival’s infrastructure are all part 

 of the company strategy for this quarter. [D5] 
20. Hyperlife These café concessions are everywhere; on corners, 

in malls, in the subway, in capsule hotels. They vary in size and 
usually employ cybrid or gig-worker barristas, but many of the 

 smaller ones are self-vend, staffed by chipper low-grade AI. [G5] 
21. Sumofood HQ All over the Sprawl you’ll find the jolly sumo logo. 

Whether it be Sumo Noodles, Sumo Bento, Sumo Burger or Sumo 
Taco, there’s a Sumo for everyone. The FPD’s Group Crime unit 
suspect the franchise is a money-laundering front for the Yakuza, 

 but haven’t yet obtained enough evidence. [H5] 
22. Green Dragon Pharmacy Your friendly neighbourhood pharmacy 

chain, rumoured to be a subsidiary of Cradle Biolabs. Many 
operate as pill mills, where desperate citizens can obtain what 

 they need by providing passable false documentation. [C4] 
23. ReFood Old-school fast food joints, serving only the very best 

in reconstituted organic matter and single cell protein, dispensed 
as a nutritious, tasty paste, then fried beyond recognition. Heavy 

 on MSGs and cheap, but best not to ask too many questions. [N9] 
24. Shameful Joy Bio-unethical fast food restaurants, their menu 

loaded with tasty cuts of vat-grown endangered species, for your 
 dining pleasure. Unsurprisingly expensive. [J4] 
25. Happy Panda Ubiquitous franchise convenience stores open 

24 hours a day, found all across the Flow and the wider Sprawl. 
Famous for each store’s wall of screens showing video feed 
from other Happy Pandas across the globe, in real-time. [C2] 

//People your locations with interesting and memorable NPCs. 78



the flow
26. E-Z-Cube Storage Tower Thirty storey vertical warehouse, packed 

with rentable storage modules, in a variety of sizes, each easily 
accessible by multiple freight elevators and robotic arms. The E-Z 
tower is currently managed by an AI with a criminal record and 

 questionable morals. [E6] 
27. CasEvac Inc. Offering pre-pay emergency medical accounts, 

CasEvac will respond within d6 minutes and extract a casualty 
from any situation, transferring them to their dedicated ER for 
stabilisation. Once they’ve fulfilled their contract, the injured party 
can then be moved to a mediplex or clinic of their choice. Usually 
1,000 b¥/month, but beware of hidden costs, after the fact 
(such as ammunition expenses, damages, fuel, CasEvac team 

 casualties, etc.). [N7] 
28. Minute Clinic Franchise If you don’t need (or want) to use the 

mediplex or CasEvac, you can always visit one of these pay-per-
use clinics. Many are run on a shoe string budget, employing 
EMTs, doctors and nurses with dubious records, but they’re cheap 
and easy to find, with few questions asked. Expect a long wait to 

 be seen by any of the staff, however. [C8] 
29. Recycling Hub 4 Huge recycling complex, dealing with plastics, 

metals, glass, chemicals and organics. Contracted out by Admin 
to the highest bidder, this for-profit is an excellent front for the 
current operators, the Bình Xuyên, and a great money-spinner 
whilst being a guaranteed way to dispose of any evidence. Both 
the Kombinat and the Jo-pok syndicates have set their sites on 

 acquiring the site for the same reasons. [K9] 
30. The Mobile Market Ever-evolving shanty town of trailers and 

RVs, metastasising around the periphery of the stadium’s lot, 
temporary home to alt-pharma hawkers, tech traders, shard 

 dealers and ticket scalps. [C9] 
31. Cognition Verification Bureau Headquarters of the so-called 

‘biocops’ tasked with hunting down and retiring rogue cybrids, 
and stopping illegal manufacturers or backstreet modifiers. 
Dangerously understaffed, much of the building now lies empty. 
There’s also an uneasy sense that the Bureau has been infiltrated 
by militant cybrid insurgents, but that might just be the paranoia 
that comes with the job. [I6] 

79 //Consult the Augmented Reality Holistic City Kit for tons of added flavour.



the flow
32. The K-M Orca Geospheres The bay currently hosts twelve 

semi-submerged geodesic clusters, staffed by geoengineers 
and teleoperators, each supported by a polymer lattice on the 
ocean’s surface, anchored to the seabed by carbon nanotube 
cabling. The geodesics are used for phytoplankton farming, 
climate and environmental monitoring and tsunami alerts. 
The site is owned and operated by Kanawa-Mendez, primarily 

 as a way of offsetting their horrendous carbon footprint. [L3] 
33. The Floatel A decommissioned Guatamalan drilling platform, 

anchored in an abandoned harbour, legitimately owned by a web 
of Kombinat front companies. The platform’s resin reinforced hull 
now serves as an exclusive hotel and casino, and as a series of 
quasi-legal fighting arenas deep in the rig’s bowels. The bouts 
are part of the Freak Fight circuit, with tickets going for big 
money. Fights here are never broadcast, and trying to smuggle 
in recording gear will get you knee-capped, or worse. Security 

 is tight and cutting-edge. [K5] 
34. Iconic Luxury Capsule Twenty stories of compact sleep capsules 

in tan and orange polymer, each outfitted with an in-built responsive 
futon with tempurfoam mattress, moulded shelf alcoves, charging 
points, net connection and a paper-thin slinkyscreen on the ceiling. 
Bedding, toiletries, snacks and beverages can be purchased from 
the vendomats found between the bathrooms and the stairwell on 
each floor. Surfaces are sanitised regularly. The Iconic is also the 
‘temporary’ workplace for self-styled legal maverick, Sonny De 
Silva (formerly of law firm Portillo, Emerson and Associates in 

 Harbor Keys), as it’s cheaper than renting office space. [H6] 
35. Thirty Hotel Actual rooms and always 30 b¥ per night. However, 

the tired-looking rooms are small and spartan, with paper bedding 
available from kiosks on the landings, where you can also procure 

 food, soap, drinks, medicines, ice, disposable phones, etc. [F8] 
36. Best Western Yoshiko A clean and modern hotel, as well as a 

restaurant of repute, the Yoshiko boasts over 300 smart rooms 
with biometric entry, building-wide Acoustic Weapon Sensors, 
and round-the-clock roboservice. The concierge is a handbraked 
limited AI, called Host, and security is tight and provided by 
discrete weapon drones, along with a suite of on-site system 
operators who continually monitor the hotel’s LAN. [J6] 

//Places change through events, so take notes of what happens there. 80



the flow
37. The Racks Former warehouse turned coffin hotel, housing 200 

cheap, cramped sleep pods, epoxied to industrial scaffolding, 
accessible once you’ve bought a plastic token from the foyer 
vendomat. The cheapest and smallest coffins are in the dank 
basement and are known as The Drawers (also accessible 

 using Social Credits, if the system is functioning that day). [C7] 
38. Obscura Dark and stylish, this bar and club has a secondary 

purpose as the Flow’s safest place to talk. Tables and booths 
are fitted with white noise generators, so no-one can listen in, 
digitally or otherwise. If you have more delicate business to 
discuss, fully enclosed, secure privacy booths on the upper floor 

 may be rented by the hour. Note: No signals get out, or in. [F4] 
39. Genesis Echo Exclusive, extremely secure, back-up operation 

and cortical archive supplier, favoured by those lower-tier jurōjin 
who don’t yet have their own set-up. In The Preservatory, Genesis 
Echo medtechs cater to bespoke clone production, storing them 
safely in a deep and spacious cryogenic vault, until needed. 
Professional, chic and privacy conscious, any consultations are 

 by appointment only. [I4] 
40. Coherent Light Situated at the apex of a fashionable luxury 

apartment stack, this is the Flow’s preeminent fluid reality gallery 
and cabaret space, catering primarily to monied aesthetes and 
pretentious illusory art afficionados. Hosts the biggest names 
in the international fluid reality scene and attracting CEOs, execs, 

 jurōjin and celebutants, with tickets going for serious money. [G6] 
41. Grand Metropole Hotel A hotel that’s seen better days, 20 stories 

of fading grandeur, with several floors condemned and empty. 
Staffed by a clutch of glitchy, poorly maintained cybrids, with the 
security provided by a stretched human team on minimum wage. 
The Metropole’s notoriously porous net access is a curse and 
a blessing; it’s an easy site to hack, but it’s just as easy to use 

 as a proxy location. [C2] 
42. Neon Lotus Private sauna and bar, situated in the shell of 

a converted tenement, said to be Yakuza owned. The tile-clad 
exterior is onyx black, accented with glowing, vertically-aligned 
kanji script in pink neon. The dark, intimate interior is a melange 
of Japanese industrial futurism and traditional stylings. Soft 

81 //If a place gets trashed, don’t sweat it, someone will refurb or rebuild there.



the flow
hōgaku music is piped into the steam rooms, massage cubicles, 
the bars and lounges. Upstairs consists of hotel-style suites and 
meeting rooms, but this private club is strictly members only, with 
fees running into a few grand a month. A favourite of successful 
operators, euro-mercs and corporate execs who demand luxury, 
privacy and expensive puppets on tap. Reclusive nexus, King 
Babylon, spends a lot of his time here, in a secure suite. Highly 
trained security staff are never far away. With Kombinat turf only 
a block or so west, there is some tension, but the bratva aren’t 

 foolish enough to make a move on the place just yet. [D4] 
43. Ultimate Fighting Dojo Well-funded and well-equipped for 

a backstreet gym and dojo, the day-to-day running of the place 
is undertaken by an uplifted and augmented mandrill with anger 
management issues, called Dominic Teeth. Also operating as 
a successful nexus of some renown, Teeth is always mindful 

 of his reputation on the streets. [F3] 
44. Byte Me! Trendy cyber café and nodejacker haven, lit by hologram 

vistas of unheard of places flickering on the walls. Hard-to-trace 
net access is available for a fee. The staff also let regular patrons 
store stuff out back, and they’re usually too high to go and look 
at what’s been stashed. Will accept payment in stimulants if 

 money’s an issue. [L9] 
45. Black Helix Four storeys of the Bình Xuyên’s very own reskin 

set-up, with a dubious reputation amongst those in the know. 
Cloned arcs, reclaimed augmentations, repossessed skins, body 
parts and organs, are all available here for a fee. In the sub-levels, 
beneath the black and crimson corridors, you find The Cooler, 
a secure and secretive bodybank and cryo-storage facility, that 

 will pay for cadavers in good condition. [B7] 
46. Neovana™ Sombre, cylindrical tower, serving as a neurocropolis, 

a temple of remembrance to the digitised deceased. Rows of 
onyx-fronted drives store the uploaded, with holo emitters allowing 
interaction with the living. The whole system is cooled by a web 
of LN2 conduits snaking through the walls. There are chapels of 
contemplation, peaceful zen gardens, hologram fountains and 
forests, plus quiet communion suites, where the drives may be 
taken for private conversation. On-site security is provided by 

//Take a location, add more detail, NPCs and sketch up a rough floorplan. 82



the flow
corporate monks, in liveried, branded robes of grey and ochre. 
Sadly, Neovana is a target for hacks by ghostrunning collectives 
and cybrid cloners looking for personas to pirate, leaving inelegant 

 deep-fakes in their stead. [F6] 
47. Null Street Ten blocks long and totally off-grid, the territory of 

the cognitive libertarians of Freemind and their families, digitally 
self-isolated from the wider Sprawl. Paranoid and prone to 
conspiracy theories, these heavily armed preppers fund their 
separatism and the operation of their biomass reactors by 

 laundering money through a network of Algerian comsats. [H8] 
48. Leisureland Site of an old cineplex, gym and pool, where filthy 

indentured zeros cook Pink Crystal in a hidden tetrameth lab, 
which funds a cell of Evolution Rebellion anti-augmentation 

 zealots. [G10] 
49. Papa Loa’s Covenant Creepy augur commune and a coven of 

witchy data-hippies, this is the most high tech sector of Kudzu 
Island, populated by augurs, tecstatics, esoteric nodejackers 
and their quantum voodoo. The Loa has erected a forest of wind 

 turbines and solar arrays for their massive energy needs. [M3] 
50. Newtro Lucky Family owned South Korean bar, famous for its 

fried chicken and makgeolli distilled on-site in their microbrewery. 
There’s also a courier company based upstairs called Generation 
Hustle, who use pushbikes, motorcycles and tuk-tuks, which 

 can make it difficult to park in the Newtro Lucky lot. [B5] 
51. The GKL VRXtreme The largest, noisiest, most over-stimulating 

VRcade and hologaming venue in the Sprawl, co-owned by the 
Chil Sung Pa (the Seven Star gang), a Jo-pok syndicate (laundering 
money), and Grand Korea Leisure corporation, in Seoul. Popular 
amongst teen VR fans and nodejackers looking for a lot of 

 confusing ‘background noise’ for their runs. [E8] 
52. Ascension Park Just one of many gated and patrolled Suburban 

Secure Zones, the comfortably conformist domain of mid-tier 
wageslaves and their company-educated families. The security 
contract regularly changes hands between Sentry, Hideyoki, Echo 

 International and ContraCrime. [E4] 
53. Automatic Billy’s Combination truck stop, bordello, motel, diner, 

and aug ‘clinic’, behind a fortified wall. Billy is from Austin and 

83 //Consider what else is in the vacinity of a location; what else is nearby?



the flow
a former big rig trucker, until he lost his legs in a crash and got 
cheap prosthetics prone to breaking. Within the walls, the 
grounds are patrolled by Günter, an IR-resistant cybrid Doberman 
tricked out with full spectrum optics and wampyrs, that looks like 

 it’s clad in black rubber. [J8] 
54. The Stratospire Stratoscraper tall, this needle-like graphene 

mast is dotted with luxury leisure pods, bubble-bars, private 
observation lounges and micro-cafés. There are also tether 
platforms for lighter-than-air sky-yacht mooring. Well defended, 

 now that Hideyoki have recently won the security contract. [F6] 
55. Dark Impulse A small, fetish-chic bar, with dangerously baroque 

furniture, dark rubber walls and lots of shiny latex surfaces. This 
club is dedicated to VR- and AR-enhanced hedonism, networking 
and (surprisingly) dining. Patrons often attend in extreme fetish 
wear and anything goes here. Network security is, as you’d 

 expect, second to none. [I6] 
56. Bayside Barrios A number of blocks worth of slums, this favela 

hides an array of counterfeiting sweatshops and their migrant 
workers, as well as a cell of datasocialist militants calling them-
selves The Photonic Republic, who are also the citizen-members 
of a prohibited non-corporeal polity in cyberspace, of the same 

 name. [K8] 
57. Club Android Intimate nightclub, famed for its robo-erotic revue 

that’s heavy on shiny chromed augments. Owned and operated 
by nexus Sorayama Chrome, a delightfully charming personality 
housed in a polished chrome femform cybershell (currently). 
Security is provided by three upgraded loader drones with buggy 

 drives, in high-vis orange paint, called Huey, Dewey and Louie. [B4] 
58. The Brink Ramshackle urban area, once built cheaply on top 

of landfill awash with a cocktail of noxious forever chemicals. 
Now infested with overt tweeker communes, hidden garage-labs, 
dealers, gangs, gaunt tetheads, drooling syn-zombies, rogue 
medics in their panel van clinics, and those who would prey on 
a ruined community. Splayed along both sides of a busy highway 

 and partially in the shadow of a decaying overpass. [I9] 
59. Carnival Row The Flow’s main strip, packed with bars, bordellos, 

clubs, backstreet casinos. here, illicit bookmakers take bets on 

//If you want more places, add them in, making note of where they are. 84



the flow
events such as drone racing, aero drag, scrapbot bouts, holo 
dogfights, parkour marathons, the Freak Fights, augmented 

 animal league knockouts and Nogo rallies. [E2] 
60. Speed Feed One of a chain of 3D fabrication shops, operating 

like a 20th century copy shop, complete with crummy waiting 
area, coffee machine and soda vendomats. Staff can be bribed 

 to overlook digital copyright and IP. [D8] 
61. Theo’s Largely run down and covered in gang tags, you wouldn’t 

know this was a bar if it wasn’t for the grime encrusted, flickering 
Budweiser neon above the steps that lead down from street level. 
The upper floors consist of low rent apartments and dilapidated 
squats. The interior is decked out in a traditional bar room style; 
a long laminated wood-effect bar with worn bar stools, table 
booths, round tables and chairs and a digital jukebox. Three old 
slinkyscreens are mounted above the bar at angles showing 
sports, news, music or porn. Theo himself is a lethargic, wiry 
skinhead in his early 50s, and can often be found thumbing 
through a well worn bible, whilst taking hits from any number of 
bright plastic inhalers with Chinese labels which he keeps behind 
the bar. Theo does carry a small supply of booze in case the FPD 
show up, but normally supplies various recreational narcotics to 

 local students, patrons and gangers. [G8] 
62. Kelvin Mao’s Progressive Peoples Initiative, LLC An example 

of one of the many legally recognised franchise micro-states 
found across the Sprawl. Kelvin Mao (not his birth name) is a tall, 
blond, techbro and former influencer of indeterminate age, who 
concocted what is known as The Manifesto, a fabricated, closed 
society that is part doomsday cult, part terrorist experiment and 
part tax-break. Mao’s walled compound is believed impenetrable, 
especially by The Manifesto’s wavering adherents. What Kelvin 

 ultimately plans to use his followers for is anyone’s guess. [B9] 
63. The Asimov Once an architectural triumph, these three (now 

deteriorating) apartment towers are woefully overcrowded. To top 
it off, a malfunctioning construction drone swarm keeps pulling 

 parts of the buildings apart to build strange new structures. [D9] 
64. ContraCrime PLEC Stark grey tower block, base of the largest 

private law enforcement company this side of the Sprawl (also 

85 //Any of these locations can be plugged in to a different city map, if you wish.



the flow
known as a “PLEX”). C2 hire out teams of overclocked and heavily 

 armed mercenary rentacops to the highest bidder. [F3] 
65. The Warrens A dangerously unstable gigaslum of flammable 

squats and shanty-stacks, also known as Little Kowloon, packed 
with people with nowhere else to go. When the City said they 

 couldn’t build out, they built up. [I8] 
66. Puppetville The sector’s main red light district. Enjoy a cavalcade 

of puppets, VR porno booths, adult AR shows, brothels, cam shows, 
lapdancing, and more, in a gaudy canyon of neon glow. Also the 

 haunt of syndicate operators and secretive flesh cartels. [G7] 
67. Hive Pylon 17 One of numerous docking nests for swarms of civil 

surveillance drones, as well as a support platform for ad blimps, 
Pylon 17 is the favoured haunt of rival hopperjacking gangs, 
basejumping from the structure in their gaudy lycra wingsuits, 

 to swoopjack passing hoppers and spinners. [M8] 
68. Weintraub & Truman, Dental Practice The names are real, but the 

dentistry is a lie. On the street, both Weintraub and Truman are 
well known and trusted biomechanics and augmentation techs. 
Behind the tenement’s drab exterior, they run a first class, cutting 

 edge implant clinic and surgery, total discretion assured. [D6] 
69. The Dollhaus Failed mall turned retail desert, now a ghost market; 

buy and sell AIs, cybrids, gynoids and other contraband tech, 
 such as illegal shardware, or cloned cyberspace consoles. [K8] 
70. The Acid Chamber This retro Punk Rock nightclub regularly 

erupts in violence. Owned by a 7ft middle-aged punk called 
Warsaw, this concrete slab of a building oozes aggression, from 
the graffiti covered exterior, to the concrete, metal and chain-link 
interior, to the screeching rage that passes for music. Gang 
disputes are not tolerated here, so it’s a good place to talk 
(shout?) to various gang members without being interrupted 

 by rival gang attacks. [D2] 
71. Aeroshare Small but professional stratocab company, their 

high tech offices situated above a busy, space-themed Italian 
restaurant, called Cosmo Nostra Pizzeria. Aeroshare is accessible 

 via a repurposed fire escape to the side of the building. [F3] 

//Try and conjure an atmosphere when PCs visit locations. 86



the flow
72. The Paradise Line A disused subway station beneath Southside 

Nogo, this fortified subsurface bolthole is home to mercenaries 
of the ATID underground, their tech support teams and their 
nexus, Smiling Jack, a morbidly obese and depraved Navy- 

 surplus dolphin uplift, acting as their agent. [H9] 
73. Mianh Voi Popular Vietnamese restaurant, in the corner plot 

of a gentrified brownstone block. Not at all affiliated with the 
Bình Xuyên, but rumours persist. However, the family are being 
harassed by the Kombinat, being pressured to pay protection 
money to the local bratva and forced to stash contraband in the 
apartments upstairs. Madame Mẹ’s eldest daughter, Giang, 
is heavily involved in the illegal Drone Dash race circuit and 

 a competent tech of some repute. [G7] 
74. Violator A bar with a reputation for biz, the place to hire Zone 

veterans, find a connected nexus or hire a savvy nodejacker. The 
basic internal BBS is air-gapped from wider cyberspace, allowing 
truly private messaging. Also hosts a holo dogfighting gambling 
circuit in darkened backrooms; ‘trode-controlled holographic 
aerial combats, where miniature ghost fighter planes strafe and 

 barrel-roll inches above the spectators’ heads. [C3] 
75. Church of the Terminal Innovation Former Tesla battery plant, 

now a nest of biochauvenist Singularity Index cultists and fanatical 
transhumanists. They employ weaponised AI, smart software, 
arcs, forking, aware weaponry, nanobombs, bespoke 3D-printed 
augments, cognitive caches, hiveminding and cybershells. 

 Function like a gang, classified as a terror group. [J9] 
76. Mo Yuan’s Motor Palace Renowned autorepair joint, chop shop 

and cleaner. Mo can make any car ‘disappear’, as well as adding 
custom mods, such as armour, tuning, weapon systems, AI driver 

 assist, polymorphic paint, installing jailbroken IFFs, etc. [E7] 
77. Tsunami Taxis Operating out of a dilapidated shithole that was 

formerly a Papa John’s, these guys forego driver/pilot background 
checks and regular vehicle maintenances. A front company for 

 the Kombinat, they will happily courier contraband for bityuan. [B7]   
78. Skinjob Records Fiercely independent music label, with its 

own on-site audioshard store, offices and recording studios in 
a converted, polymer-clad apartment block. There’s also a small 

87 //Consider how busy or quiet a location might be, depending on time of day.



the flow
bar and gig space on the ground floor and a streaming channel 
operates from the basement. Co-owned by actress Crystal Green 
and chip hop legend, Greezy Trillion (who runs Skinjob’s day-to-
day operations). Luminous Media are currently manoeuvring to 

 acquire this successful label for their portfolio [M9] 
79. Buzz Industries This large nightclub was recently refurbished 

using Yakuza loans, after a devastating fire. The interior is clad 
in matt black rubberised plastic, with the large, central dance 
floor illuminated by a column of white and UV light, creating 
a striking visual focus. Several wide gantries and walkways 
surround the space. UV body stencils are available near the 
cloakrooms for 10b¥ each. White-suited security staff patrol 
the club, glowing under the UV. Door security is handled by 
an AI housed in a converted industrial cybershell fixed into the 
ceiling. Clusters of manipulator arms blossom out of the central 
body and multiple optic mounts give 360° views to both the 
AI and security team. Some of the waldo arms are tipped with 
powerful tasers. Patrons are scanned for weapons and a 50b¥ 
fee is charged to store them securely. The music of choice here 

 is Technoise. [H5] 
80. Comic Station Shibuya A large, four storey acrylic-fronted manga, 

comics, animé and collectables store with so much neon kanji, 
it’s a hopper navigation hazard. The first three floors are pure 
OCD geek, whilst the fourth, top floor is a members-only bar, 
called Download. Popular with nodejackers, urban-hip low-tier 
corporates, med students and tech nerds. Velocity Dispatch 
courier company operates a small comms centre here, accessible 
from a door down a side alley crowded with e-scooters and 3D 
printed bikes. [B3]

//How does the weather effect the use of a location? And the people there? 88



the flow
 
random city locations 
R oll d66 (roll two dice, one being the tens, the other, units) 
 
11. Office Block 
 Rentable spaces for small start-ups and shady commerce. 
12. Media Village 
 Sweatshop conditions; cubicles of coders and meme creators. 
13. Car Park/Hopper Port 
 Tiered concrete maze of poorly lit vehicle bays. 
14. Religious Structure 
 Mosque, temple, Dataorthadox Church, or Gun Jesus cult. 
15. School Stack 
 Corporate education-as-industry; elite indentured learning. 
16. Suspension Bridge 
 Road bridge slowly subsumed by makeshift homes. 
21. Leisureplex 
 Gyms, cinemas, arcades, and theatre, cradled in neon. 
22. Rusting Tenement 
 Corroded and rain-streaked, they say people still live here. 
23. Trashtopia 
 Scavenger families mine this toxic blight for reclaimables. 
24. Sleek Stratoscraper 
 Mirrored and angular or a shard wreathed in video screens. 
25. Pocket park 
 Walled garden with fountains/statues that crowns a  building. 
26. Nightclub 
 Myriad levels of perma-raves; the fun goes all the way up. 
31. Hydroponics Project 
 Entire buildings given over to wild, verdant greening. 
32. FPD Police Precinct 
 Oppressive, fortified cylinder looming over the district. 
33. Canal/Drainage 
 Deep channels of frothy filth, coated in trash; bitter stench. 
34. Skywalk 
 Pedestrian walkways between buildings, drenched in neon. 
35. Low-rent Depthscraper 

89 Subsurface habitation funnels that descend for several stories. 



the flow
36. Autonomous Assemblery 
 Tireless robotic assembly lines, with little human oversight. 
41. Scrap Yard 
 Vast quantities of obsolete technology, piled high and forgotten. 
42. Monorail Station 
 Elevated magnetic rail network held up by other buildings. 
43. Hospitality Spire 
 Neon-drenched sliver of bars, restaurants, VRcades, casinos. 
44. Underslum 
 Compact shanty towns epoxied beneath roads or skywalks. 
45. Gallery/Museum 
 Floor after floor of corporate approved arts and culture. 
46. Commercial Hub 
 Car showrooms, chic fashion houses, bespoke fabricators. 
51. Franchise Mega-hotel 
 Ancient & crumbling, sleek and hi-tech, or sleazy and worn. 
52. Gated Community 
 Hyper-secure, old (or new) money keeps the masses out. 
53. Luxury Apartments 
 Elegant and often engaged in a cold war with a nearby block. 
54. Senior Citadel 
 Elderly enclave that’s part nursing home, part bunker complex. 
55. Farm Cylinder 
 Crops and livestock entombed in a climate-controlled spire. 
56. Sky Mansion 
 Spacious grand manner and gardens built atop a skyscraper. 
61. Gigamarket 
 Anodyne shelf-maze of gaudy food packaging and muzak. 
62. Arcology Block 
 Secure company ziggurat where employees need never leave. 
63. Capsule Motel 
 Rows of compact, rentable pods; sometimes clean. 
64. Slum-stack 
 Precarious squatter-filled favela-tower growing skyward. 
65. Vertical Warehouse 
 Labyrinthine distribution towers. 
66. Backstreet Workshop 

Repurposed spaces now utilised for repair and maintenance. 90



91



appendix 2 : 
metal express

92



metal express

vehicle customisation 
The GM may assign Abilities, Quirks, and Bolt-Ons to customize 
their vehicles. There is no limit to how many a vehicle can, or should, 
have. Use as many as you think is appropriate. 
 
abilities 
Roll 2d6 
Vehicles can have several at the same time. Some of them can also 
b e applied multiple times. 
0 2.  Camouflaged: looks to be something else. 
03.  Amphibious: submersible or it can float, or other combined 
 terrain capability. 
04.  Armoured for Combat: small arms can’t damage it, only heavy 
 weapons are sufficiently powerful. 
05.  Cybercontrol Rig: +1 Reaction for the driver/pilot (this is an 

extra bonus when the operator also has the Dornier Orbital® 
 Vehicle Interface augmentation).  
06.  Autonomous: onboard AI driver, or capable of being remotely 
 operated, like a drone. 
0 7.  Crazy Fast: for its type (sports cars, jet fighters). 

 08.  Very Large: for its type (extra seats/cargo space). 
0 9.  Tough: up to +3 to the vehicle’s DS. 
10.  Rough Terrain Capable: off-road, unpaved runways, arctic 
 conditions, etc. 
1 1.  Showoff: +1 to Equilibrium when used to impress people. 
12.  Invisible: stealth capable, or extremely nondescript. 
 
quirks 
Roll 2d6 
V ehicles can have several at the same time. 
02.  Funky autopilot: driver assist has been upgraded with a limited 

AI; it can cruise, park itself and arrive when called. When it’s not 
 having ideas of its own, that is. 

93 03.  Unwieldy: -1 to maneuver rolls. 



metal express
04.  Stinker: the vehicle’s interior smells super-funky and no-one 
 can figure out why. Did something die in here? 
05.  Bone-rattler: the vehicle is way too loud and shakes and 
 vibrates under the most minor stress. Pray it doesn’t fall apart… 
06.  Hangar Queen: needs extra maintenance time, 
 expertise and expenses. 

 07.  Bare Bones: basic, but super cheap for its type. 
08.  Antique: painfully outdated, outmoded and tragically 
 outperformed, for its type. 
0 9.  Small: compact for its type (less seats/ cargo space). 

 10.  Fragile: up to -3 to the vehicle’s DS. 
11.  Hot: the vehicle has been stolen and a corporation, 

a cartel, or the cops are actively looking for it. Hope there’s 
no hidden tracker. Alternatively, its in high demand among 

 thieves, and more likely to get stolen. 
12.  Rare Bird: turns heads, but difficult to find parts for it. 
 
bolt-ons 
 Roll d66 (roll two dice, one being the tens, the other, units) 
11. Polymorphic Paintjob 

The military uses it for adaptive camouflage, fancy folks use 
it to make sure their car’s colour matches their handbag, crooks 
use it to make vehicles more difficult to identify, and punks use it 

 to look über cool. Complete colour change takes about 5 minutes. 
12. External Loudspeakers 

The cops use these for public address, punks use them to force 
the entire street to listen to the same music they like, the military 
uses it for psyops (milspeak for “make the entire jungle listen to 
some Wagner”), corporations use it for advertising (“make the 

 entire block hear about our latest product”). 
13. Really Nasty Security System 

Electrified door handles, shaped charge explosive under the 
driver’s seat, black ICE in the cybercontrol interface, mycotoxin 
gas jets in the cabin… or a brutally unnerving burglar alarm, 

 at the very least. 
94



metal express
14. Alternate ID 

Rotating license plates, switchable transponder code; the vehicle 
has two identities that can be swapped out at the flick of a switch, 
literally. Appropriate paperwork for each identity included. Illegal 

 in most jurisdictions. 
15. Home Away From Home 

Whether it’s some camping gear tucked away in a motorcycle’s 
paniers, or a modified luxury cruise ship, the vehicle carries the 
gear to allow you to rest, eat and clean yourself, in a the city’s 
alleyways, or out in the wild. Unless the vehicle has been built 
(or rebuilt) to have this as its primary function (thus compromising 
its other functions), it is just some emergency camping supplies/  
survival packs stashed away. But there’s enough for everybody 

 on board. 
16. Hidden Compartments 

The vehicle has been refitted to have hidden spaces to keep 
stuff from prying eyes (usually customs officers). Note, these 
aren’t usually made with easy access in mind; secrecy is the 

 primary concern. How big these spaces are is up to the GM. 
21. Spoiler Alert 

Stabiliser fins, extra control surfaces, spoilers, flaps, air 
brakes… just a few more of these and your ride would look like 
a messed-up porcupine. But it gives you some edge: +1 to any 
risky maneuver tests. Until you take any damage and lose half 

 that junk. 
22. Turbo 

Nitro, afterburners, souped-up turbocharger, or the special secret 
ingredient in the fuel mix. When engaged, the vehicle becomes 
Crazy Fast for the type (and if it was Crazy Fast, it is now even 
faster). The system has limited use (1d6 turns) before the special 
juice runs out/ the engine overheats/you deplete your fuel tank 

 too much and have to return to your usual speed. 
23. Trunk Monkey 

The vehicle has a charging and transport bay for a drone of 
your chosen type (most often a scout or assistant). If the vehicle 

 is large, there might be multiple drones. 
24. Pursuit Deterrent 

Good old oil dropper, caltrops dispenser, mine launcher (includes 
95 aerial drone-mines for flying vehicles)… a little something to 



metal express
maintain your personal space in case somebody is attempting 

 to chase after you (1d6 uses). 
25. Really Fancy Crew Protection 

Multi-point seatbelts, air cushions everywhere, crash seats with 
extra shock absorption, crumple zones, impact-absorbing foam 
sprayed into the crew compartment, automated fire fighting 
system, roll cage, ejection seats, escape capsule, the whole 
shebang! This set-up is intended to guarantee that even if the 
vehicle gets totally wasted in an accident (or firefight), you’ll be 
walking  away from the wreck. How effective is it really? Nobody 

 onboard wants to find out. 
26. Whisper Quiet 

Soundproofing. Really good muffler. Special tires. Perhaps 
fully-electric propulsion. Someone has really gone to a lot of effort 

 to make this vehicle as quiet as humanly possible. And then some. 
31. Self-propelled Chapel 

The vehicle is adorned with religious iconography and 
paraphernalia (pick your religion. Or ideology. Or favourite band). 
Seems St. Christopher on the keychain and a rosary on the 

 rearview mirror wasn’t enough to cut it… 
32. Flower Power 

Equipped to grow fruit or vegetation. Full hydroponics suite. 
Mobile weed farm. Did you know the Mitsubishi-Hayabusa F-6 
Fukurou stealth fighter comes with a small, secured, transparent 
compartment for a flower composition in the cockpit, as standard? 

 Ikebana strong.  
33. Rescue Ranger 

The vehicle was at some point outfitted for emergency rescue duty 
(medical, fire, law enforcement, technical, etc). From ambulance 
motorcycles, to fire trucks, armoured MBT recovery vehicles and 
hospital ships. What kind of job it had and how much of the stuff 

 is still there (and in what condition), is up to the GM.  
34. Pimpmobile 

The vehicle has been given all the bling-bling there is, and 
then some. Keeping it in pristine condition must be a huge chore, 

 and it certainly will get you noticed.  
35. Extra Range 

The vehicle has been modified with additional fuel tanks. Possibly 
96



metal express
external and detachable; pray it was a professional job. On the 
other hand, jerrycans crammed into the back seat and a funnel 

 to pour gas into the main tank remains a possibility, too. 
36. Hybrid Propulsion 

The vehicle has two independent sources of power (two separate 
engines are a distinct possibility) eg: a combustion engine that 
runs off petrol and LPG, or combustion and electric. Or jet and 

 scramjet.  
41. Psychedelic Paintjob 

Looks very, very wrong, and yet weirdly captivating. Unless you’re 
 on acid yourself, then it is just perfect. 
42. Brace For Impact 

If you thought ramming went out of fashion along with ancient 
war galleys, you’re wrong. This vehicle got equipped with stuff that 
allows it to force its way through obstacles. Reinforced ice prows 
for ships, heavy-duty ramming bumpers for cars, dozer blades for 

 tanks and wire-cutting blades for aircraft. 
43. Really Fancy Sensor Suite 

Someone went out of their way and then went an extra mile 
to equip this vehicle with an insane sensor package (well, for 
its type). Radar, sonar, magnetic anomaly detector, infrared, 
thermograph, light amplification, gas spectrometer, Geiger counter 
or a coffee machine (your old-school mk.1 eyeball could use 

 a boost sometimes, too). State-of-the-art. 
44. Wall Of Light 

The vehicle has high-power lights, floodlights and searchlights, 
plus some other kinds of lights, probably. Ultra-bright, ultra-powerful, 

 ultra-difficult to look into. 
45. If It Burns, It’ll Do 

The vehicle has a multi-fuel engine; whether its a milspec device 
meant to power the vehicle in any circumstances, or just an 
ancient diesel that doesn’t give a fuck, it will work on anything that 
is liquid and combustible. Gasoline, diesel fuel, heavy oil, alcohol, 
biogas, even cooking oil (be wary of the french fries smell you 
leave behind). Anything goes! Don’t expect stellar performance 
(GM may rule that some fuels don’t have enough oomph to cut it, 
especially where flying vehicles are concerned), and the fuel 
economy is going to suffer, the engine will wear down faster on 

97



metal express
such a harsh diet, but when it’s the difference between being 
stuck where you are, and moving forward, this option does make 

 a difference. 
46. Workshop 

The vehicle has been outfitted to carry a set of tools for some kind 
of work (GM’s call). Exact size and range of equipment depends 
heavily on the vehicle’s type, but such vehicles are relatively well 
equipped. Unless someone sacked the good stuff before you got 

 your hands on the ride. 
51. Really Fancy Comms System 

If you still think CB radio is the bee’s knees, you haven’t seen 
this baby! The communications suite is truly spectacular (although 
details may differ). Long-range radios, probably a number of 
them. Scrambling. Frequency hopping. Special antennas. Laser, 
microwave, or ULF transmission. Satellite communication capability. 
Advanced mil-spec tactical data links for Computerized Command 

 and Control. Anything goes. 
52. Strongbox 

The vehicle has been outfitted to serve as a secure means of 
transportation of some sort. Be it a bank car, a prisoner transport, 
or something else, it has a reinforced compartment that is very 
difficult to get to without proper authorization. It may be as small 
as a secured cargo box on a motorcycle, or large enough to fill 
entire decks of a ship, but one thing is certain,  without the keys, 

 you’re really gonna sweat to get inside it… or get out of it. 
 
53. Hacker-proofed 

Systems on this vehicle have been hardened to prevent 
unauthorized electronic meddling. Sometimes, it means special 
electronic safety measures, or using really obscure programming 
methods. But it can also mean keeping as much stuff as possible 
analogue, because no matter how good a console jockey you are, 
you can’t hack something that ain’t got a gram of computing power 

 in it. Ever tried hacking a VW Beetle, eh, smartass? 
54. Transformer 

Somehow, the vehicle can transform into a completely different 
vehicle class, eg: a car that can extend wings and become an 
airplane. Just how long this transformation takes is up to the GM. 
Keep in mind the vehicle isn’t likely to have stellar performance 

98



metal express
in either class (the two-in-one approach eats a lot of mass and 
energy that other vehicles use to up their specs instead). 

 NB: Not a robot in disguise. Probably. 
55. Extreme Weather Adapted 

Tweaked for extreme weather conditions, usually either for 
extremely hot climate, with extra cooling systems and highly 
effective air conditioning, or extreme cold, with well-insulated, 
heated crew space, but also systems to keep fuel, lubricants and 
other elements in working condition, and the crew comfortable. 
Either way, it is going to work just fine in conditions that would 

 make normal vehicles an obvious health hazard. 
56. Tinker’s Dream 

For some reason, the vehicle is easy to modify. Maybe it is 
just elegantly simple, or perhaps it was designed to be easily 
modifiable. Bear in mind, this doesn’t necessarily mean that new 

 parts will be long-lived.  
61. Weapons Locker 

The vehicle is equipped with a dedicated space for storing 
weapons (usually in a safe and secure manner). The exact 
capacity of the locker is dependent on its size and intended role 
(up to the GM what is actually in there when you lay your grubby 

 mitts on it). 
62. Luxury Amenities 

Maybe its leather upholstery, maybe its a wet bar, or massager 
seats, but this vehicle was equipped with expensive comforts, 

 not necessarily common for its usual purpose. 
63. Remote Control Rig 

The vehicle can be controlled from afar, by the use of a dedicated 
console. How big the console is, how far it can reach, and how 
difficult it is to operate the vehicle’s functions remotely, is up to 
the GM. The vehicle retains all standard controls, and generally 

 the remote control adaptation is not obvious. 
64. Bob The Builder 

The vehicle has been equipped with specialist heavy equipment 
for earthworking (excavator arm, bulldozer blade, etc.), heavy lifting 
(crane, forklift, reach stacker, etc.), or for a more limited scope of 
work (eg: cement mixer, well drill or cable layer). In most cases, 
this defines the primary purpose of the vehicle, although some, 

99 smaller examples may be used to supplement its basic role 



metal express
(eg: small cranes that allow trucks to load and unload themselves, 

 common on military logistics trucks). 
65. Gulaschkanone 

While the GM may decide to interpret it as a food delivery vehicle, 
this is a vehicle equipped as a food preparation and serving point. 
Be it a motorized hot-dog stand, a foodtruck, a mobile restaurant, 
or, as suggested by the colloquial German name, a military field 

 kitchen.   
66. Self-destruct Mechanism 

Kingston valves. Scuttling charges. Autopilot set to hit the 
nearest available hard obstacle at maximum speed. Either way, 
the vehicle has been equipped to render itself completely useless 
to would-be captors. Whether the vehicle will do it in a way safe 
for the immediate neighbourhood or not, depends on the exact 
nature of the self-destruct (the GM’s call). 

 
interior style 
Roll 2d6 
L ooks good, but where’s that new car smell?… 

 02.  Immaculate: clean; smells like disinfectant. 
0 3.  Muddy: wet or caked dry; smells earthy/dusty. 

 04.  Tres Fancy: smells fancy, too. For what it is. 
05.  Old West Aesthetic: strong scent of leather, tobacco, whiskey 
 and a mid-life crisis.  
0 6.  Pastel Colours: fluffy accessories and nauseating sweet aroma. 
07.  Trash Can: full of empty beverage cans and fast food wrappers; 
 reeks like a dumpster. 

 08.  Strictly Utilitarian: weirdly, there’s no discernable smell. 
0 9.  Neon & Chrome: flashy; smells… weird. Like ozone and smack. 
10.  Black Is The New Black: everything inside is black. Even smells 
 black. Like ninja farts. 
11.  Animal Fur: faux fur seat covers; smells like an animal, too. At 
 least you hope its an animal. 
12.  Gadgetland: humming electronic add-ons everywhere; smells 

like warm plastic. Feels too warm. 100



metal express

race n chase 
Assuming the chase is taking place in appropriately dense terrain 
(otherwise it becomes strictly a matter of which vehicle is faster 
in a straight run); the driver rolls vs their opponent’s DS (+2 for the 
obviously faster vehicle, +1 for every round of the chase already won, 
to represent the lead gained. If you lose a round of the chase, the 
bonus is reduced by 1).  
 
The chase or race takes as many rounds as the GM wants it to 
(usually d6+2 rounds, if you want to randomise it). Whoever has won 
more rounds of the chase, wins (first one past the finish line; loses the 
pursuing vehicle(s); or isn’t lost by the escaping party, catching up 
with them). 
 
the really big guns 
Realistically, most big gun (and missile) hits against other vehicles 
mean the target vehicle, if hit, gets seriously damaged, crippled, or 
even completely destroyed by a single strike. Tank guns are intended 
to one-shot other tanks, to say nothing of lesser armoured vehicles. 
Same with anti-tank missiles.  
 
In Sprawl Goons, the way to represent this is to apply a damage 
modifier every time you think the weapon used for the attack is powerful 
enough: be it x2 the success margin, x3, x5… Of course, if you prefer 
the vehicles to slug it out in a more cinematic fashion, the modifier can 
be toned down, or even waived completely. 
 
The same mechanism can be used to represent the difference 
between different weapon systems on the same vehicle, eg: an attack 
helicopter can carry a number of tank-killing missiles (damage x5) and 
an autocannon to be used against lesser targets (damage x2). 
 
Bear in mind that by doing this, while being more realistic, it is extremely 
detrimental to the health of your PCs. You have been warned. 
 
Missiles can be divided into anti-aircraft, anti-surface (or anti-vehicle), 
and anti-personnel (doing area damage like a grenade). Anti-personnel 
ammunition (such as fragmentation and incendiary warheads) doesn’t 
have a noticeable effect against vehicles that are Armoured for combat. 
 
Guided projectiles are +3 to the attack roll, unguided rockets are not 

101 (but they are mainly used in an anti-personnel role, anyway). 



metal express
Firing guided missiles does give you an edge in a dogfight. AI-guided 
‘Genius Munitions’ are +6 to the attack roll, but, unsurprisingly, they 
are prohibitively expensive. The GM is free to adjust these modifiers 
to represent older tech (lower bonus) or super-smart newtech (better 
bonus). 
 
A vehicle, if armed with missiles, usually has enough missiles for 1d6 
attacks (whether those are individual missiles being fired, or salvoes, 
is GM choice). 
 
Note: Some vehicles (primarily ships and armoured vehicles) often 
carry reloads for their missile systems, sometimes multiple reloads. 
The 1d6 attacks indicates how many are available on the vehicle’s 
launchers; these can’t be replenished during a fight. 
 
GM option for NPC vehicles: Instead of rolling the amount of 
missiles at the start of an encounter, roll a d6 every time the NPC 
vehicle fires its missiles. If the result is equal or lower to the number 
of salvoes fired, they’ve just run dry.  
 
Vehicles that use missiles are usually armed for a specific mission 
 and specific target profile. If a random roll is required, roll 1d6: 
1 - Anti-aircraft missiles only 
2 - Anti-vehicle missiles only 
3 - Anti-personnel missiles only 
4 - Anti-aircraft and anti-vehicle missiles 
5 - Anti-vehicle and anti-personnel missiles 
6 - Everything but the kitchen sink 
 
Note on submarines: They can be armed with missiles, just like 
other vehicle. Torpedoes are just a specialised type of anti-vehicle 
(or anti-personnel, if you have to deal with combat divers, bioforms, 
cybered animals and the like) missile effective only against waterborne 
targets. Still, submarine-launched anti-aircraft missiles, submarine-
launched cruise missiles and rocket-deployed torpedoes do exist 
(as well as rocket-propelled torpedoes and supercavitating torpedoes). 
 
Countermeasures & decoys: Military and corporate vehicles can 
reasonably be expected to be equipped with flares, chaff, torpedo 
decoys, smoke grenade launchers, anti-laser aerosols, and the like. 
Again, 1d6 are available. 
 102



metal express
Each time countermeasures are deployed, all guided missile attacks 
against this vehicle lose their bonus, though being ambushed is likely 
to prevent deployment of decoys. 
 
Active anti-missile systems and point-defence guns (CIWS, Phalanx, 
Zaslon, Arena, etc., or hardkill systems in mil-speak) are considered 
missile countermeasures, though usually used by ground vehicles 
(and ships) only. These may also affect unguided rockets, making 
them -3 to hit, should the GM wish. 
 
Vehicle-mounted guns (be it tank cannons, or helicopter 
door-mounted machineguns) have vast magazines of ammunition. 
They don’t run out of ammo, unless: 
1. GM decides there’s little ammo left (or the ammo hopper was tiny 

from the start). Typically, only 2d6 attacks-worth remains.  
2. Attack roll results in snake eyes - either you’ve dumped all the 

ammo there was, or something has jammed (and can’t be repaired 
in a fight). One way or another, no more dakka. 

 
Vehicle guns can use specialised ammo. Typically, both anti-vehicle 
and anti-personnel / general-purpose (like HE) are available. HE is an 
area-effect weapon, like grenades. 
 
the big guns 
Roll 1d6 
1. Rheinmetall® Rh-140/L50 Smoothbore Tank Gun (SS)  
2. Armcor® Thumper 76mm Rapid-fire Cannon (SS/B) 
3. Hayabusa® Kenku Autocannon (B/FA) 
4. Dornier Orbital® Lorelei Pulse Laser (B) 
5. Sentry® Mjölnir Gauss Gun (SS) 
6. HAK® Spitter Chaingun (FA) 
 
the missiles 
Roll 1d6 
1. Haunt® Viper Anti-Aircraft Missile (surface-to-air and air-to-air) 
2. Korolev® 9M12 Shashka-D Anti-Tank Missile 
3. Rheinmetall® Albatross Anti-Surface Missile 
4. Hideyoki® Tetsubo Cluster Missile (anti-infantry) 
5. HAK® Kestrel Anti-Aircraft Missile 
6. QBZ® Pengguling Anti-Infantry Missile 
 

103



metal express

ramming 
That’s a DS roll. If ramming is successful, the smaller or lighter vehicle 
takes damage (as per DS difference). Bonus +1 to the ram action if 
the vehicle is tricked-out for ramming attacks (see Bolt-Ons). 
 
pedestrians 
For a PC on foot to avoid being run over or crushed, roll Reaction vs 
Vehicle DS. If a PC is attempting to mow down an NPC, the player 
must beat the NPC’s DS on a Reaction-based driving roll. 
 
collisions 
When two vehicles collide at speed, with one being driven by a PC, 
roll the PC’s Reaction vs NPC Vehicle DS, applying the difference in 
damage to all occupants of the NPC vehicle. If the roll fails, then only 
the occupants of the PC vehicle take damage. And -2 to the damage 
if the airbags deploy. Hope you’ve got ‘em.  
 
critical vehicle damage 
Roll 1d6 
1.     Chipped, dented, bumped, equipment and weapons damaged 

and nonfunctional. 
 
2.    Ripped off elements, weapons destroyed and nonfunctional. 
 
3.    Shut down parts of the vehicle, control penalties. 
 
4.    Damaged controls, significant penalties to control. 
 
5.    Seriously damaged, difficult to control. Lots of smoke. 
 
6.    Major and important parts of the vehicle lost, barely functioning, 

barely controllable. Likely on fire. 
 
7+    Wrecked, good for scrap only. Engine dead. Crash imminent, 

will possibly explode in d6 turns. Or sooner. 
 
control rolls 
When a vehicle becomes difficult to control through damage, and 
a loss of control will lead to danger, a PC may attempt a Control Roll 
to mitigate those effects. 
 
This is a Dangerous Action Roll of Reaction vs DS14. 

104



metal express
Failing the roll means the difference in damage is taken by each of 
the occupants of the vehicle when it crashes. The GM is free to modify 
this roll up or down, or add Upgrade or Glitch dice, depending on the 
circumstances. 
 
hacking vehicles 
As per the standard Hacking rules outlined in the volume Sprawl 
Goons: Upgraded. 
 
T ypical difficulties: 

Easy: 8 
Vehicles that normally work with electronic lines of communication, 

or remote operation, such a s robo-cabs or ad blimps. 
Moderate: 10 

Average or stan dard vehicles. 
Challenging: 12 

Vehicles with enhanced electronic protection, such as 
corporate transports. 

 
Hard: 14 

Minimum level for (up-to -date) military vehicles. 
Formidable: 16 

Minimum level for anything that is driven by a true AI. 
 
Keep in mind that some vehicles, even in the cyberpunk age, are 
not hackable - not enough silicon in them for a hacker to do anything 
(“Okay, so you took over their stereo system, now what?”). Accessing 
the electronics may also require physically plugging into the vehicle. 
 
repairing vehicles i 
Repairs - cost:If your vehicle is damaged, it can usually be repaired. 
That is, if you still have it, have access to a skilled mechanic with an 
appropriate workshop, and proper parts. 
 
• Every point of the vehicle’s DS that was lost costs 10% of the vehicle’s 

initial price to restore. So, if it got shot up by 9 points, you’ll have to 
front almost as much as a new vehicle would cost you. Ouch. 

 
• Half of the repair cost is the labour. Meaning, you can skip the labour 

cost and do the job yourself, provided you have the time, tools and 
105 skill yourself.  



metal express
• The other half of the cost is parts, assuming you’re using original, 

new, up-to-spec components. And that they’re available on the open 
market. 

 
• Using cheap, generic, or reclaimed original parts can cut the cost of 

parts by half (or even more - GM’s call). But, those are only available 
for vehicles that are a common. If you’re driving some oddity, you’re 
not getting away that cheap. Also, repairing a vehicle with budget 
parts is going to reflect on its general shape and performance, 
as well as the longevity of the parts. 

 
• If the parts need to be obtained on the black market, expect 

the price to at least double. Triple isn’t that unreasonable. And the 
GM may go crazy with black market pricing. After all, a complete 
powerpack for a Rheinmetall Löwe Main Battle Tank isn’t something 
you find in your local mall. 

 
repairing vehicles ii 
R epairs - time taken: 
• One person-day of work (one skilled mechanic working for one shift) 

can restore up to 1 point of a vehicle’s DS 
(assuming tools, workshop space and appropriate parts are at 
hand). The GM might want to increase the time taken in the case of 

 really big vehicles. 
• Multiple mechanics can work together (usually on 

different elements of the vehicle), or work on multiple shifts during 
the day. That makes it faster, but also more expensive (and the GM 
may put a limit on how many mechanics can work on a single ve-
hicle). 

 
• A half-competent assistant (trainee, apprentice, robot - someone 

who knows what a dynamic #12 socket wrench is) counts as doing 
half of a person-day per shift. But no more than one assistant per 

 mechanic. 
• Every extra mechanic increases the labour cost by 100%, and every 

assistant an extra 50% (assuming they are available). 
 
Paying a large crew to work on your vehicle is going to bring it back in 
no time. But they’ll charge you through the nose, big time. 
 
 

106



metal express

sprawl mechanics for hire 
R oll 1d6 
1. Honest Slava - former Lithuanian Motorised Infantry, this middle-

aged vehicle dealer and techie is adept at fixing APCs and other 
 Eastern Bloc military hardware. 
2. Mo Yuan - the mechanic of choice for the Sprawl’s gogangers, 
 specialising in motorcycles and musclecars. 
3. Delaney - she’s the best mechanic to go to if you need to make 
 a stolen vehicle clean, fast, no questions asked. 
4. Tito the Tuner - best in the business, no job too big or too small, 
 but he charges serious bityuan for his skills. 
5. A1 - former Formula One pit remote, this multi-limbed Limited AI 

knows everything about repairs and upgrades, and is rented out, 
 by the hour, via fixer Leonie Turner. 
6. ‘Captain’ Devi Malhotra - if its a waterborne craft, they can fix 

it, no problem. Devi maintains a hidden network of docks and 
workshops servicing the Sprawl’s pirates and smugglers. 

 

107



the showroom
Motorcycles 

 
BMW R21 (DS8, Showoff, Hot). For many, a motorcycle means 
sex appeal, and this sexy beast from BMW’s Heritage line has all 
the sex appeal you’ll ever need; think of it as a purebred stallion. 
It’s big, it’s classy (and with classic lines), it just oozes the right stuff. 
The rider doesn’t have to compensate for anything… and they know 
it. Unsurprisingly, the R21 is always in the top three of the Sprawl’s 
most stolen motorcycles. 10,000b¥ 
 
Serafim Ataman (DS8, Rough Terrain Ready (offroad), Unwieldy). 
A large, heavy motorcycle, originally intended for Russian armed 
forces use (though it gained popularity elsewhere as well) due to 
its utility and affordable price. Seats two, but can be equipped with 
a sidecar for another passenger, and still pull a small trailer, although 
this might affect handling while offroad. 6,000b¥ 
 
Hayabusa Shinden (DS8, Crazy Fast, Hangar Queen). 
When something is called “Lightning”, you don’t expect it to be tame. 
And this bike from Hayabusa certainly isn’t. It is powerful, and it is 
ridiculously fast. A bike to leave lesser crotch rockets to eat its exhaust 
fumes. The wet dream of bosozoku bike gangers - and a fulfilled dream, 
as soon as they can afford it. However, such souped-up performance 
comes at a price - the Shinden operates at the edge of available 
technology, and thus requires meticulous, constant maintenance. 
Lots and lots of maintenance. 12,500b¥ 
 
Hero C12 (DS8, Really Outperformed, Bare Bones Basic). 
An inexpensive, bare bones scooter, but if you need to get around, 
and you’re on a tight budget, the Hero C will get the job done. After all, 
it gets the job done in many less affluent parts of the world, and you’ll 
be surprised to see what the folks have been able to load on it; limited 
means and great needs really stimulate ingenuity. No wonder then 
that Hero Motors sells a shit-ton of these worldwide. 2,500b¥ 
 

Snowmobile 
 
Sisu Peura (DS8, Bare Bones Basic). The most popular snowmobile 
in the world, Sisu Peura, is as sure-footed in the snow as it’s namesake, 
the reindeer. It is available in countless variants and modifications, but 
at its core, it is a good, basic vehicle. It won’t do for the high-demand 
professional applications, but for everyday use, it does just fine. Which, 

108



the showroom
along with its affordable price, is what made it so popular. 1,500b¥ 
 

Jet Ski 
 

Dornier Roche (usually DS8, but Fragile: DS4). Dornier cut quite 
a few corners with their Roche-series jet skis. Sure, they managed 
to keep the cost down, but the resulting vehicle is relatively delicate, 
and limited to use as a pleasure craft in relatively calm waters. Which 
is where you see it; at tourist resorts, being ridden by vacationers.  
1,250b¥ 

Cars 
 

Mitsubishi Amatsubame (DS12, Small). This tiny citycar (seats 
two and has minimal baggage space) is popular in city centers, due 
to sound mechanical design and pleasant (some say cute) aesthetics. 
There’s a proper engine under the hood - not an underpowered 
lawnmower motor many cheap citycars use - and if you don’t mind 
poor fuel economy, you can engage the ‘sport’ mode. Sure, calling it 
sport is laughable, but the Amatsubame can then keep up with regular 
cars on the expressway - quite useful when commuting to and from 
the suburbs. 8,000b¥ 
 
Škoda Rider (DS12, Invisible). The most popular compact on the 
market, you can’t throw a stone without hitting one of these. A very 
reasonable choice, if you simply need a standard car. Available with 
countless options and variants, nevertheless, there are so many 
Riders in the street that every single one of them is almost invisible.  
12,250b¥ 
 
Hawker-Aichi Baribal (DS12, Very Large For The Type, Bare Bones 
Basic). Your basic family minivan, capable of packing a large family 
(seats seven, and still has sizable cargo space - you can fold down 
the rear sofa to get a really big trunk, but that cuts the seats to four) 
and is equipped with a decent engine to haul them. The basic 
configuration is rather spartan, but the list of optional equipment  
s extensive. 15,500b¥ 
 
HWL Mandarin Type 31 (DS12, Offroad Capable, Bone Rattler). 
A Chinese-made jeep of military origin, still used by Chinese armed 
forces as a light utility vehicle, that won its place on the market with 
low price, good off-road performance and no-nonsense design. The 
Type 31 can be found in many third world countries’ militaries, as well 

109



the showroom
as with the less demanding first-world civilian users. People who need 
a jeep, need it cheap, and don’t care much for the comfort of the poor 
souls on board who have to ride in it. 8,750b¥ 
 

Boats 
 

Eichner & Voss Serie 200 (DS12, Small). A popular speedboat, used 
to tow water skiers and for similar recreational applications. Does well 
on calm, inland waters, but the manufacturer does not advise taking it 
out in rough seas. 11,500b¥ 
 

Big Cars 
 

BMW T9-Series (DS14, Luxury Amenities, Really Fancy Crew 
Protection). Quality German engineering, this limousine matches 
class and style with performance. Each and every one  is individually 
finished, and any bespoke option can be ordered for it. And it has it 
where it counts. The T9 is considered an appropriate choice for upper 
echelon corporates and top-tier diplomatic personnel, even heads-of-
state. For the discerning, the T9 Protection, a reinforced, improved 
security model (Armoured For Combat) - is available. 35,000b¥ 
(the T9P 49,999b¥) 
 
Zuni Mercury (DS14,Tinker’s Dream, Invisible). Your standard 
multipurpose van, produced under license all over the world, and 
intentionally made easy to modify (in addition to multiple variants 
readily available). You want a small bus? Mercury. A mobile workshop? 
Mercury. An ambulance? Mercury. A light firetruck? Mercury. 
A refrigerated goods transport? Mercury. Something else? Yup, you 
know the answer. It doesn’t handle offroad well, but apart from that, 
it certainly pays the bill. 18,000b¥ 
 

Big Boats 
 

Montxo Class 14 Cutter (usually DS14, Tough: DS21, Rough Terrain 
Capable [storm weather], Bone Rattler). You can sink a Class 14 cutter, 
but only if you break it into shards first, and can handle anything the 
world throws at her. Montxo developed the Class 14 (named for its 
14-metre-long hull) as a rescue craft (though several other industries 
found uses for the model), capable of responding to marine emergencies 
anywhere in the world, in any weather conditions. It was designed 
with tons of spare buoyancy and a self-righting hull. It simply refuses 

110



the showroom
to go under, no matter what. However, this comes at a cost: you will 
definitely be seeing your last meal, way sooner than you’d like to.  
250,000b¥ 
 

Trucks & Buses 
 

Volvo G-Series (DS16). A massive family of trucks from a renowned 
Swedish manufacturer, it includes GL models for light, in-city work, GE 
for general use, GMX heavy-duty trucks (used mostly for construction 
applications), GM semi-tractor for long-haul applications, and GH heavy 
prime mover (for hauling oversized / superheavy special trailers - Very 
Large For The Type). Each one available in a wide choice of engine, 
cabin and additional equipment options: long-range variants are 
typically equipped with sleeper cabs (Home Away From Home), 
and for military applications, reinforced cabs (Armoured For Combat) 
are available. 100,000 - 500,000b¥ 
 
Hawker-Aichi Greyhound (DS16, Unwieldy) A long-range bus (or coach 
as the Brits call them), providing an intercity transport alternative to 
railroad or air travel. Not the nimblest vehicle around, but it gets the job 
done. Hawker-Aichi does offer them in the Comfort (Luxury Amenities) 
variant (among others), but commercial operators rarely bother with 
these. Still, some of the more particular customers might order a fully 
decked-out Greyhound. 80,000 - 120,000b¥ 
 
Hawker-Aichi Daschund (DS16, Very Large For The Type, 
Cybercontrol Rig). Hawker-Aichi’s proposal for the intra-city, public 
transport operators. Low-floor, articulated design, it can take nearly 
200 passengers (almost a third of them seated), and comes equipped 
with cybernetic controls for maximum driving precision on the congested 
city streets. It is as long as legal regulations allow; Hawker-Aichi state 
they could make the Daschund even longer (for extra capacity), if there’s 
customer interest in one. Modern-day requirements for ease of access 
(as well as height limitations) make a double-decker Daschund an 
unlikely proposal, but supposedly plans for one do exist. 135,750b¥ 
 
Kamaz 7X-Series (DS24, Tough). A family of heavy-duty trucks from 
a well-known Russian manufacturer. Available both as cab and chassis 
units (Bare Bones Basic) or as complete vehicles, they can be ordered 
with all-wheel drive (Offroad Capable) if necessary. Two-axel, three-
axel, the superheavy four-axel, plus, 8x8 models are available. Most 
were originally designed with armed forces’ needs in mind (in fact, 

111



the showroom
armour kits for the cab - Armoured For Combat - are available. Kamaz 
has also presented a few dedicated armoured vehicles based on their 
truck chassis, but none were a commercial success), and all Kamaz 
7’s show that lineage; they’re tough, no-nonsense vehicles. Somewhat 
rough around the edges, but they’ll get the job done. Combined with 
Kamaz competitive prices, this has won them many purchases in the 
less-affluent parts of the world. 45,900b¥ 
 

Armoured Personnel Carriers 
 

HWL Mandarin Type 75 (DS18, Brace For Impact!, Amphibious, 
Armoured For Combat, Rough Terrain Ready). A rather plain APC, 
the Type 75 however does reasonably well in low-intensity conflicts. 
It is also popular in more advanced nations as a police vehicle (for 
SWAT and riot duty), where it’s reinforced prow comes in handy. 
HWL Mandarin sells lots of them. It comes with a small turret, intended 
for a .50-cal machinegun, although other similarly sized weapons 
have been seen too (police vehicles often use belt-fed grenade 
launchers, loaded with tear gas, rubber bullets or paint grenades 
for riot control duties). 325,000b¥ 
 
Armcor Grizzly (DS18, Amphibious, Armoured For Combat, If It Burns, 
It’ll Do, Rough Terrain Ready). A first-rate Infantry Fighting Vehicle, 
capable of transporting and supporting a squad of grunts on a modern 
battlefield. This (or comparable models from other manufacturers) 
is what armies buy, provided they can afford it. A modern, unmanned 
weapons station in a remotely-operated turret holds an autocannon, 
a conventional machinegun and a missile launcher (typically anti-tank 
missiles are installed, but it is a common practice to have some 
vehicles armed with anti-aircraft missiles mixed into a unit, for 
close-range anti-air defence). 575,000b¥ 
 

Tanks 
 

Rheinmetall Löwe (DS20, Armoured For Combat, Rough Terrain 
Ready). This venerable Main Battle Tank has grown somewhat long in 
the tooth, but remains a respectable battlewagon, even today, thanks 
to a series of upgrade packages Rheinmetall made for it. Even if it is 
no longer the bleeding edge of armoured warfare, a lot of them were 
built and sold to armies all around the globe. Depending on how deep 
a given army’s pockets are, the actual variant may be anything from 
almost obsolete to not quite on-par with current tech developments. 

112



the showroom
You have to hand it to the Rheinmetall engineers, they do know 
how to build good tanks. It mounts a turret with the well-respected 
Rh-140/L50 main gun, a couple of machineguns for close-in defence, 
and (in more recent variants) anti-tank missiles (fired through the main 
gun’s barrel). 1,500,000b¥ 
 

Ships 
 

Kenbichi Heavy Industries Shikabe-Series (DS20, AI Controlled). 
A popular ‘feeder’, i.e. a small container ship (312 TEU capacity) 
intended to transport containers between major hubs (which are 
frequented by the massive supercontainer freighters, carrying well 
over 20,000 TEU), and smaller harbours that simply don’t have such 
cargo flow (and couldn’t handle such a massive supercontainer 
vessel). Navigating well-known routes on a set schedule is what 
the Shikabe’s AI excels at, although as a safety feature, or for 
emergencies, controls and room for a full human crew are provided. 
10,000,000b¥ 
 
VSV Kosatka (DS20, Armoured For Combat, Funky Autopilot, 
Trunk Monkey). A favourite of many nations and corporate states, the 
Kosatka-class corvette is small enough to be useful as a patrol vessel, 
yet big enough to pack a punch, and affordable enough to be bought 
in quantity. It has a well-known drawback, however; the nav assistant / 
autopilot system has notoriously glitchy code, and tends to badly over-
react in the most inappropriate moments. Kosatka is armed with a 
medium-calibre, rapid-firing, remotely operated deck gun (effective 
against both surface and aerial targets), surface-to-surface missiles 
and a bank of anti-aircraft missiles. For policing work, some railing-
mounted machineguns are often added. A drone launch rack for 
recon and observation remotes is also fitted, a standard. 6,250,000b¥ 
 

Submarines 
 

Naval Group Chimere (DS20, Stealth, Whisper Quiet, Really Fancy 
Sensors, Armoured For Combat, Cybercontrol Rig). A non-nuclear, 
relatively compact attack submarine with AIP (Air Independent 
Propulsion) system. Pretty modern, it can give the older nuclear subs 
a run for their money, and is way cheaper. Made by a French-Spanish 
consortium, but sold worldwide, it is armed with an arsenal of missiles 
and torpedoes, and depending on the variant, can be equipped with 
cruise missile capability, and has room for a special forces unit, along 

113



the showroom
with storage space for their equipment and landing craft, or swimmer 
delivery vehicle.245,500,000b¥ 
 
Eichner & Voss Schweinswale (DS20, Trunk Monkey, Bob The 
Builder). A mid-sized cargo and utility submarine, the Schweinswale 
is a common sight at undersea habitats, mining stations and farms, 
either transporting goods or performing other tasks. It comes equipped 
with universal interfaces for a plethora of manipulators and construc-
tion tools, as well as a drone rack for assistant remotes. 95,000,000b¥ 
 

Trains 
 

Bharatiya Vayu Sena Industries Hamsa (DS20 per car, Crazy Fast, 
Whisper Quiet). The pride of the Indian Railway (and selling abroad like 
hotcakes) Hamsa is the shatabdi express for the cyberpunk age. Fast 
and comfortable (on demand, cars equipped with Luxury Amenities 
are available - some railway companies ordered Hamsa trains so  
lavishly equipped as to outshine the centuries-old legend of the Orient 
Express), and, contrary to an airliner, can get you right to the railway 
station in the center of a city. No wonder they sell so well. 
120,000,000b¥ 
 

VTOL Aircraft - Helicopters and Tiltrotors 
 

Zuni Bumblebee (usually DS16, but Fragile: DS8, Small For The 
Class). This tiny, two-seater helicopter is sold mainly as a pleasure 
craft. However, it is also used in professional capacity as a patrol and 
observation helicopter, with services who need such an asset, but can’t 
afford larger models, or don’t really need them. Bumblebees can be 
seen in the liveries of many forest ranger services, border protection 
agencies, police forces and corporate security groups. 820,000b¥ 
 
Sikorsky S-311 (DS16, Cybercontrol Rig). A light utility helicopter 
from Sikorsky, the S-311 (known in military circles as the S-311 
Navajo) is commonly used as a traffic observer, police pursuit 
helicopter, light personnel transport, news crew vehicle and so on. 
Armies use it primarily as an observer and scout (sometimes armed 
with a .50-cal machinegun and a few missiles, sometimes without 
armament. Depending on the army’s budget, Really Fancy Sensors 
might be available), and sometimes as a lightweight aerial transport 
for small special forces groups (although for that application, a beefed-
up engine is recommended, for extra lift capacity). 5,000,000b¥ 

114



the showroom
Kamov K-98 Strekoza (DS16, Armoured For Combat, Crazy Fast). 
A modern, Russian-made attack helicopter built in the characteristic 
Kamov style, with double-stacked main rotor and no tail rotor. Fast 
and deadly, the K-98 carries an autocannon and a battery of missiles. 
Kamov is making a killing, selling these both domestically and abroad. 
12,000,000b¥ 
 
Draco D91 Wyvern (DS16, Invisible). A pretty basic, yet very popular 
tiltrotor. Well-liked for its spacious cargo hold, decent lift capability and 
ease of maintenance. Used by civilian operators, as well as military 
ones, for the roles once occupied by heavy transport helicopters, 
but by their nature, tiltrotors are faster and more maneuverable. 
7,500,000b¥  
 

Small Aircraft 
 

Draco D65 Forktail (DS14, Bone Rattler, Rough Terrain Ready 
[improvised runways], Amphibious, Extra Range). Do you want 
a handful of people and some cargo delivered to some place so 
remote that even God himself has forgotten about it? The D65 Forktail 
is your friend. This rugged bushplane from Draco can land anywhere, 
even on water (thanks to a flying boat design), or on an improvised 
airfield (landing on snow requires some prep, but Draco manufactures 
parts kits that exchange tires for skis). Twin tail booms allow the aircraft 
to have a sizable rear cargo ramp, giving easy access to the main hold. 
Still, it is a bush plane, so don’t expect a comfortable ride. 
3,900,000b¥ 
 
Shikr S-22 Shaheen (DS14, Crazy Fast, Turbo, Really Outdated). 
This old jetbird was originally manufactured in Iran, although its lineage 
can be clearly traced back to several Cold War-era Soviet jet fighters. 
For a time it was pretty popular with less-affluent nations (or those 
who had money, but no connections to buy fancier stuff), and, therefore, 
still remains in service in several places around the world. In fact, 
it was so popular that a few Israeli companies have put together 
upgrade packages for the S-22. So, if you have the money, your old 
Shaheen can be brought up-to-date (well… almost. Even an upgraded 
S-22 won’t stand up to top-of-the-line modern delta fighters). Comes 
armed with an autocannon (though some variants ditch it, making 
more room for electronics) and can carry a small, but adequate loadout 
of rockets, bombs and missiles. If you have invested in modern 
munitions (and the right upgrade package), an old Shaheen makes 

115 as good delivery platform as any. 1,200,000b¥ 



the showroom
Embraer Condor (DS14, Small For The Type, Rough Terrain Ready 
(improvised runways)). There are a number of variants of this small 
Brazilian turboprop available. For the civilian market, it is a two-seat 
light airplane that can also carry some baggage, and land almost 
anywhere. For the military, it was initially developed as a trainer 
aircraft. However, like many similar designs, it was also turned into 
a counterinsurgency aircraft, armed with machineguns, rocket pods, 
bombs and missiles, able to operate from improvised airfields to attack 
ground targets in low-intensity conflicts (a paved road is a luxury landing 
strip for the Condor, and even a reasonably even pasture will do…) 
For that reason, some of the more militant corporations procure them, 
too. A COIN like the Condor wouldn’t stand a chance against a modern 
fighter jet, but against guerrillas with no such assets, it does pretty well.  
2,150,000b¥ 
 

Medium Aircraft  
 

Draco D103 Zmey (DS16, Extra Range, Crazy Fast, optional Luxury 
Amenities). Fast, long-ranged, comfortable - that’s what the Zmey, an 
executive jet from Draco, is. How comfortable? Well, that depends on 
the depth of your pockets. Multibillionaires fly Zmeys, and some heads 
of governments do as well. Draco offers these craft with built-in missile 
countermeasures and decoy launchers, as people who can afford such 
a craft tend to have some serious enemies. 8,000,000 - 16,000,000b¥ 
 
Embraer E4-Series (DS16, Invisible) If you’re travelling by local 
flight anywhere in the world, there’s a good chance you’re flying on 
an Embraer E4. The Brazilians are selling these mid-size airliners 
(60-150 seats, depending on configuration) all over the globe. The 
aircraft themselves are rather plain, but they are very affordable, 
reliable and they get the job done. Some have been even adopted by 
military forces as airborne warning and control systems (with Really 
Fancy Sensor Suites and Really Fancy Comms System, as well as 
Extra Range, wherever possible, and packing mil-spec missile defences), 
although, they are kind of a budget solution compared to proper AWACS 
aircraft. 17,000,000b¥  
 

Large Aircraft 
 

Antonov An-144 Nosorig (usually DS18, but Tough: DS22, Bare 
Bones Basic, Rare Bird). A Ukrainian-made descendant of the famed 
An-124 Ruslan, the An-144 is not the largest cargo aircraft in the world, 
but it is still massive. In military terms, it is classified as a Strategic Airlift 116



the showroom
Aircraft, meaning you could stuff it with anything (up to a couple of 
main battle tanks) and have it delivered anywhere in the world. Such 
heavy airlift capacity is also useful to civilian customers too, especially 
when there is a crisis of some sort underway and you need hundreds 
of tons of stuff delivered ASAP. Since it is meant to provide the best 
possible cargo economy, it is a relatively very simplistic (if clever and 
reliable) design, with no unnecessary add-ons, just the crucial stuff. 
30,000,000b¥ 
 
Airbus A430 (DS18, Extra Range, Very Large For The Type, Unwieldy, 
Cybercontrol Rig). This intercontinental airliner from Airbus is a fully 
double-decked, twin-aisle, four-engined behemoth of the skies. 
Depending on the configuration, it can carry up to a little over a thousand 
passengers. Obviously, such a huge aircraft cannot be really nimble, 
but it doesn’t really need to be. Especially given its range allows it to 
take a trip from Paris, France to Auckland, New Zealand with a full 
load and still have fuel to spare. 62,000,000b¥ 
 

Lighter-Than-Air 
 

Jerboa Electric Cometa (usually DS12, Fragile: DS8, AI Driver, State 
Of The Art Sensors). A successful small blimp from a South American 
manufacturer, the Cometa is solar-powered and often remains airborne 
for weeks, or even months, and is operated as a drone, or, in the more 
advanced versions, by an onboard AI (though space for a few crew-
members is provided). An excellent sensor package (varies depend-
ing on version and the buyer’s budget) allows it to function as a 
surveillance platform for law enforcement, as an airborne observer 
for a number of emergency response, survey and scientific purposes, 
and as a picket / patrol for military and border protection. An armed 
version is on offer (equipped with sonobuoys, anti-shipping missiles 
and rocket-deployed torpedoes) intended for anti-submarine warfare. 
However, most militaries prefer to have a human at the controls of 
an armed craft, and limits in human endurance does reduce the 
Cometa’s capability of carrying out long patrols. Add to the fact the 
blimp is, by nature, not very fast and you’ll know why it never gained 
much traction as a combat craft. It would, however, make an excellent 
corporate patrol platform. 8,000,000b¥ 
 
Boeing Atlas (DS12, Very Large For The Type, Extra Range, 
Cybercontrol Rig). A truly majestic sight, the Atlas is Boeing's entry 
into the heavy cargo blimp market. Despite its size, it is extremely 

117 maneuverable, thanks to dozens of adjustable ducted fans and 



the showroom
a state-of-the-art cyber controlled steering system. It can act as a flying 
crane, or, just as easily, transport multi-ton cargoes to another continent. 
It is faster than seagoing freighters, and can easily fly where a ship 
couldn’t sail (although, a ship could carry more goods). 14,750,000b¥ 
 

Tanksuits & Powered Armour 
 

Kenbichi Heavy Industries & Urushiflash Jizo (DS14, Rescue 
Ranger, Really Fancy Crew Protection, Rough Terrain Adapted 
(rubble)). A tanksuit dedicated to rescue operations in urban terrain. 
While expensive, Jizo powered armours are highly valued assets 
when you have to deal with fire or a collapsed building (in fact, the 
impetus to create this model came after a major earthquake in Japan, 
when rescue services needed more than human hands but heavy 
engineering vehicles weren’t able to negotiate the rubble) and, thanks 
to built-in environmental seals, they are also invaluable when dealing 
with toxic spills. 850,000b¥ 
 
Vanda-Sheridan Lexington (DS14, Armoured For Combat, Really 
Outdated). A rather plain, but popular, general-use military tanksuit 
from the previous generation. A lot of them went out to the wider 
world, and thus can be found in the places you wouldn’t normally 
expect to field powered armour. Thanks to their popularity and long 
service, upgrade packages are available and an updated Lexington 
is not something to be taken lightly. Typical armament package 
includes either a .50-cal machinegun or an automatic grenade launcher, 
and is often supplemented by an RPG, rocket pod or, if somebody 
has the budget, a missile launcher (usually with anti-tank missiles). 
990,000b¥ 
 
Saab Panther (usually DS14, but Fragile: DS10, Armoured For Combat, 
Small For The Type, Invisible, Whisper Quiet, Rare Bird, Hangar 
Queen). A lightweight tanksuit from a leading European manufacturer, 
Panther is engineered for special operations, Small and hard to detect, 
it can negotiate any space a normal-sized human could (which is always 
a problem for the heavier powered armours). There are a number of 
drawbacks, though; it is far from being as durable as mainstream 
tanksuits, requiring a lot of maintenance and some very expensive, 
specialized parts. For armament, the Panther usually uses standard 
high-powered infantry weapons like automatic rifles and SMGs, often 
suppressed. Larger guns would impede its ability to fit in the tight 
spaces of urban battlefields (however, it can carry dedicated anti- 
vehicle weapons if the mission profile calls for it). 1,350,000b¥ 118



the showroom
Walkers 

 
Kenbichi Heavy Industries Ari (DS16, Bob The Builder, Cybercontrol 
Rig). Once again, the Japanese got it right and the Ari-series of 
construction walkers turned out to be indispensable on construction 
sites. Sure, it is a specialised piece of equipment, and not likely to  
replace all the other stuff, but it is really damn handy to have a couple 
of these around. There are less popular variants for other industrial 
applications, like mining or cargo handling, too. 1,500,000b¥ 
 
Vanda-Sheridan Essex (DS16, Armoured For Combat, Really Fancy 
Sensor Suite, Cybercontrol Rig). A bipedal combat walker from an 
American manufacturer normally specialising in tanksuits. When 
launched, the Essex was intended as a light, maneuverable combat 
unit for both reconnaissance roles and urban combat. Seems nobody 
had really figured out the military applications or benefits of combat 
walkers when the Essex was being designed, so it doesn’t really excel 
in either of these roles. Still, it pops up in the Zones sometimes, and 
in dense terrain it is much nimbler than conventional combat vehicles. 
The Essex platform comes equipped with an autocannon and universal 
machinegun, as well as a missile launcher with anti-vehicle missiles 
(sometimes swapped out for anti-aircraft missiles). 995,000b¥ 

119



sprawl goons
upgraded

C A R B O N  E D I T I O N

gH
Geist Hack Games